Page 1 
 
REF. NUMBER AND DATE SHOULD BE QUOTED IN REFERENCE TO THIS LETTER 
凡 提 及 本 信 時 請 引 述 編 號 及 日 期 
FS 107A (Rev.10/95) 
 
 
 
   消    防    處 
 牌  照 及  審  批 總  區  
 香港九龍尖沙咀東康莊道１號 5 樓  
 消防總部大廈  
 
本處檔號  OUR REF.:  ( 36 ) in FP 314/07 IV  
來函檔號  YOUR REF.:  
電報掛號  TELEX: 39607 HKFSD HX  
圖文傳真  FAX: 852 -2723 2197  
電    話  TEL NO.: 852 -2733 7 612  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT   
  LICENSING & CERTIFICATION COMMAND  
   FIRE SERVICES HEADQUARTERS BUILDING,  
    5/F, No. 1 Hong Chong Road,  
    Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon  
     Hong Kong.  
 
 
 
 
 18 November 2002 
 
 
 
To :
 Authorized Persons 
Registered F.S.I. Contractors 
Registered Ventilation Contractors 
Registered Lift & Escalator Contractors 
Fire Insurance Association of H.K. 
The Association of Registered F.S.I. 
Contractors of Hong Kong 
Structural Division, H.K.I.E. 
Power Companies 
The H.K. & China Gas Co. 
The Lift & Escalator Contractors 
Association 
Pacific Century Cyber Works Limited 
Hong Kong Construction Association 
Director of Architectural Services 
Director of Buildings 
Director of Housing 
Petroleum Companies 
 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
 
 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2002 
Hot Smoke Test on Smoke Extraction System
 
 
 
  
  To ensure the satisfactory installation of a smoke extraction system, an 
acceptance test in the form of hot smoke test may be required to ascertain the performance 
of such system.  In this connection, a Working Group comprises represe ntatives of 
relevant trades, professional institutions and Government departments has been formed to 
study the above issue. The study is now completed and the recommendations of the 
Working Group on the standards of the hot smoke test are attached at the appendix.  
 
Page 2 
 
REF. NUMBER AND DATE SHOULD BE QUOTED IN REFERENCE TO THIS LETTER 
凡 提 及 本 信 時 請 引 述 編 號 及 日 期 
FS 107A (Rev.10/95) 
 
 
 
  The requirement of hot smoke test will be stipulated together with the smoke 
extraction system if considered necessary by the New Projects Division of this 
Department upon the receipt of general building plans submission involving those 
compartments as indicated in paragraph (A) of the appendix.  The requirement of hot 
smoke test will take place with immediate effect on the date of this Circular Letter. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
 
 
 (LAU Kwai-shan) 
 for Director of Fire Services 
 
 
Encl. 
          Appendix 
 
 
 
(A) Compartments requiring hot smoke test
 
 
 
(i) Compartments with headroom of 12 m or more; or 
 
(ii) Compartments with irregular geometrical dimensions or 
extraordinary large size. 
 
 
(B) Salient points for the test  
 
 
(i) The temperature of simulated hot air plume should be 
maintained at about 10o C below the temperature rating of the 
ceiling sprinklers to avoid any unwanted actuation of 
sprinklers or damage to building structures and finishes; 
 
(ii) The size of the test fire should be at least 1 MW or of such 
size as agreed by the Director of Fire Services; 
 
(iii) Non-contaminating industrial grade methylated spirit may be 
used subject to the agreement of the Director of Fire Services; 
 
(iv) Non-toxic oil based smoke generator may be used subject to 
the agreement of the Director of Fire Services; 
 
(v) The test will be conducted with reference to the Australian 
Standard AS 4391 -1999 or other equivalent international 
standards. 
 
 
 
 
 
(C) Safety measures to be observed during the Hot Smoke Test 
 
(i) Adequate safety measures should be prov ided to prevent any 
possible spread of fire during the test; 
 
(ii) Adequate fire extinguishers should be provided at scene; 
 
(iii) The standing -by of a fire appliance may be required if 
considered necessary. 
 
 
(D) The smoke extraction system will be considered acceptable  if the 
following points are complied with during the hot smoke test 
 
 
(i) The designed smoke clear height should be maintained; 
 
(ii) The low level fresh air make -up and the high level air extract 
should be formed in such a pattern that the smoke flow paths 
shall have a “scouring” effect  in all areas within the smoke 
compartment.  The make -up fresh air should not have any 
impact on the stability of the smoke layer; 
 
(iii) The smoke extraction system should actuate promptly in 
response to a fire alarm signal; 
 
(iv) No signific ant disperse of smoke should occur at adjoining 
smoke compartment(s); 
 
(v) No deflection exceeding the design limit should be observed 
at hanging smoke curtains; 
 
(vi) No significant smoke should be built up in ‘stagnant corners’ 
beneath the smoke layer; 
 
(vii) No smoke should re-enter into the building through building 
openings or fresh air intake louvers. 