--- PAGE 1 ---
FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT

: wi FIRE SAFETY COMMAND

BREE AE THF, Fire Services Headquarters Building
SBA LO mE — 8 No. 1 Hong Chong Road

SMe BABE g Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon

Hong Kong

ARGEABS? OUR REF. : (1) in FP(FS) 314/07 IV
3REREIE YOUR REF. :
FEISCIREL FAX NO. —; 852-2312 0376

ey @G TEL.NO. —: 852-2170 9595

BFE E-mail : fschq@bkfsd.gov.hk

20 August 2013

To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters
Dear Sirs/Madams,

FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2013
Fire Hydrant / Hose Reel System

This Circular Letter announces the revised requirements for fire hydrant /
hose reel system stipulated in the Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service
Installations and Equipment, 2012 (FSI Code).

All along, the FSI Code has adopted the same principle with regard to the
spacing and location requirements for fire hydrants and hose reels in various premises,
ie. there shail be sufficient hydrants and hose reels on each floor to ensure that every
part of the building can be reached by a length of not more than 30 m of Fire Services
hose and hose reel tubing. Fire hydrants are designed for the dedicated use of
firemen and to be sited in the approach lobby to staircase or in the staircase enclosure.
Moreover, the provision of fire hydrants in unprotected corridors is not acceptable
from the operational point of view. In order to meet such requirements, there were
cases where corridors between staircase enclosures and approach lobbies were
prolonged, resulting in rather peculiar floor layouts. On the other hand, hose reels
are provided for use by building occupants at the beginning of the outbreak of fire and
are therefore usually sited in common corridors and/or individual units. Since fire
hydrants and hose reels are provided for different users and are subject to different
siting requirements, the spacing and location of fire hydrants and hose reels can be
considered separately according to their own merits provided that the building fire
safety and efficiency of operations are not compromised.

Ref. number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter

At RO fs Sa MR

--- PAGE 2 ---
To rectify the above anomaly, a comprehensive review on the spacing and
location requirements for fire hydrants had been conducted by this Department
recently. The review concludes that as the maximum travel distance specified in the
Code of Practice for Fire Safety in Buildings (Fire Safety Code) promulgated by the
Buildings Department has limited the horizontal distance between the furthest point
and a required staircase on a floor to be not more than 36 m (not along balcony
approach) and 45 m (along balcony approach), fire hydrants to be sited in ALL
approach lobbies to required staircases or required staircase enclosures are acceptable
to the Fire Services Department. This amendment will enhance building fire safety
and at the same time provide clarity in the current requirements to facilitate
compliance by building professionals. The proposed amendment had been tabled for
discussion and was unanimously supported at a recent meeting of the Fire Services
Department / Authorized Persons Liaison Committee.

While the revised requirement is based on the maximum travel distance
specified in the Fire Safety Code, building designs adopting fire engineering approach
with deviation from the specified maximum travel distance will be considered on a
case-by-case basis. Similarly, for buildings without required staircase, the
requirements for fire hydrants will also be considered on a case-by-case basis.

Besides, the review also revealed that siting of fire hydrants at the central
core of staircase enclosure was unacceptable from the operational point of view mainly
because the fire hose would run across the means of escape when connected to the fire
hydrant. Accordingly, paragraph 5.14(i)(a) of the FSI Code has been revised to
prohibit such siting of fire hydrants. The revised requirements are outlined in the
enclosed amendment sheet.

The revised requirements will take effect from 1 October 2013 for all initial
building plan submissions. Initial building plans voluntarily applying the revised
requirements submitted before 1 October 2013 are also acceptable. The revised
requirements are recommended for adoption in amendment or A&A submissions.
For enquiry and clarification, please contact our New Projects Division at 2733 7854.

Yours faithfully,

(NG Kuen-chi)
Jor Director of Fire Services
Encl.

Ref. number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter

AL f# Rok (9 HS) MMH R

--- PAGE 3 ---
Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service

Installations and Equipment (April 2012 Revision)
Amendment Sheet Serial No. 2/2013

(1) Replace the EXTENT section of paragraphs 4.1(xi), 4.2(xi), 4.3(vi), 4.4(vii),
4.70x), 4.8(xi), 4.13(vii), 4.14(ix), 4.15(x), 4.17(ix), 4.22(), 4.23(v), 4.26(v),
4.27(x), 4.28(x), 4.29(ix), 4.30(ix), 4.31 (ix), 4.32(x), 4.39(vii) and 4.43(x) with:

“There shall be sufficient hydrants and hose reels on each floor,
Fire hydrants shall be provided in all approach lobbies to required
staircases or required staircase enclosures. For buildings not
having the required staircase, fire hydrants shall be provided to the
satisfaction of the Director of Fire Services. Hose reels shall be
provided to ensure that every part of the building can be reached by
a length of not more than 30 m of hose reel tubing.”

(2) Replace the first sentence of sub-paragraph 4 of paragraph 5.14(a) with:
“The hydrant shall be prominently sited in an approach lobby to a

required staircase or required staircase enclosure but shall not be
at the central core of the staircase enclosure.”

Ref. number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter
