5J!i ~Jj ~ 
>Pi ~J:j ~ ~ !' ~ 
i!l' ii 1L Ii~ ~ ;j> □_El_ * g~ BJ if :ill -5/Jt 
5J!i ~fH~ $ * IR -t fi 
:,t~;Jl5!1t OUR REF.: 
*15EJ;jl511t YOUR REF.: 
~X:ff~ FAX: 
~ ~3 TEL. NO.: 
~rlGft E-MAIL: 
(52) in FSD FSC GR 13-314/07 IV 
852-2312 0376 
852-2170 9595 
fschq@hkfsd.gov.hk 
To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters 
Dear Sirs/Madams, 
FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
FIRE SAFETY COMMAND 
7 /F, Fire Services Headquarters Building, 
No. 1 Hong Chong Road, Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon. 
Hong Kong. 
18 September 2020 
FSD Circular Letter No. 6/2020 
Installation of Fire Service Pump or Supply Tank 
on Roof or Floor Slab 
This Circular Letter serves to supersede FSD Circular Letter No. 1/2012 so 
as to in line with the extended coverage of the Minor Works Control System 
("MWCS") by the Buildings Department ("BD") which has proven to be a simple and 
convenient procedures in carrying out small-scale building works. 
In relation to the installation of Fire Service ("FS") pump(s) and supply 
tank(s), the Building (Minor Works) (Amendment) Regulation 2020, with the 
commencement date of 1 September 2020, designates the following new minor works 
items under the MWCS: 
(i) Erection or alteration of any glass reinforced polyester water tank; and 
(ii) Erection or alteration of any supporting structure for a building services 
installation, or any metal casing for such an installation. 
Therefore, alteration and addition works involving the installation of FS 
pump(s) and/or supply tank(s) with associated supporting structures or any other 
building works that fall within the above minor works items may be carried out 
through the simplified requirements under the MWCS without the need for obtaining 
approval and consent from the BD. Examples are provided at Appendix A for 
illustration. 
- 2 -
For detailed requirements and procedures of MWCS, please refer to the 
Building (Minor Works) (Amendment) Regulation 2020, General Guidelines and 
Technical Guidelines on Minor Works Control System and BD website 
(www.bd.gov.hk). 
Notwithstanding the above, the ex1stmg submission and certification 
procedures for FS pump(s) directly seated on roof or floor slab, not involving the 
construction of structural system nor any other building works, remain valid as 
outlined at Appendix B. Such installation works shall be carried out by a Registered 
Fire Service Installation Contractors and certified by an Authorized Person or 
Registered Structural Engineer to ensure its structural safety. 
Should you have any questions on the arrangement, please feel free to 
contact Divisional Officer (Support) of the Fire Safety Command at 2170 9501. 
Yours faithfully, 
Encl. 
- 3 -
Appendix A 
Examples of Minor Works Item for the Installation of FS Pump I Supply Tank 
Minor Works Item Conditions of Minor Works Item Classification of 
Works 
1. Erection or alteration of any glass (a) the works do not involve the alteration of any other structural elements; Class I 
reinforced polyester water tankCi) (b) the capacity of the tank is not more than 4.5 m 3; and Minor Works 
on-grade or on a slab ( other than a (c) the works do not fall within the description of item 3 of Part 2 of Schedule 2 or item 2_3(ii) of Item 1.49 
cantilevered slab) Building (Minor Works) Regulation. 
2. Erection or alteration of any (a) the works do not involve the alteration of any other structural elements; Class I 
supporting structure for a building (b) for a supporting structure, the height of the structure, which is designed for the building Minor Works 
services installation (such as FS services installation, is not more than 1.5 m; Item 1.50 
pump over and including 200 kg), (c) for a casing -
or any metal casing for such an (i) the weight of the casing is not more than 10% of the weight of the building services 
installation, on-grade, on a canopy installation; and 
( other than a cantilevered slab) or (ii) the inner surface of the casing and the installation are not more than 200 mm apart in all 
on a roof ( other than a directions; and 
cantilevered slab) of a building (d) the works do not fall within the description of item 3 .50(ii) of Building (Minor Works) 
Regulation. 
3. Erection or alteration of any (a) the works do not involve the alteration of any other structural elements; Class III 
supporting structure for a building (b) for a supporting structure- Minor Works 
services installation (such as FS (i) the structure is designed for a building services installation- Item 3.50 
pump not more than 200 kg), or (A) of not more than 200 kg in weight; and 
any metal casing for such an (B) the average weight of which is not more than 100 kg per m 2 of the ground area (if 
installation, on-grade or on a roof the structure is located on-grade) or slab area (if the structure is located on a roof); 
( other than a cantilevered slab and and 
an inaccessible roof) of a building (ii) the height of the structure, which is designed for the building services installation, is not 
more than 1.5 m; and 
(c) for a casing-
(i) the weight of the casing is not more than 10% of the weight of the building services 
installation; and 
(ii) the inner surface of the casing and the installation are not more than 200 mm apart in all 
directions. 
(i) The works include associated supporting structure. 
(ii) For the detail of "item 3 of Part 2 of Schedule 2", "item 2.3" and "item 3.50", please refer to Building (Minor Works) Regulation. 
- 4 -
Appendix B 
Certificate of Structural Safety of Building 
for FS Pump Directly Seated on Roof or Floor Slab 
When the FS pump(s) is seated directly on the roof or floor slab of an 
existing building (i.e. not involving construction of structural systems, such as 
spreader, concrete plinth/block for the purposes of evening out the weight of the 
pump(s) and/or securing the pump(s) or any other building works), an Authorized 
Person (AP) or Registered Structural Engineer (RSE) is required to ensure the 
structural adequacy of the building structure with supporting calculation and to submit 
to the Fire Services Department (FSD) a structural certificate and its related 
documents to certify the structural safety of the building upon completion of the 
installation work. 
A) The structural certificate should include the following: 
1. Particulars of the appointed AP /RSE; 
2. Particulars of the building; 
3. A statement by AP/RSE to confirm the structural adequacy of the 
existing building structure and the availability of the supporting 
calculation; 
4. Particulars of FS pump(s) installed including the individual pump 
casmg; 
5. The structural element( s) affected; and 
6. The design code adopted for checking. 
B) The related documents include the following: 
1. A plan showing the FS pump(s) locations, extent of individual pump 
casing and the affected structural elements; and 
2. Record photos of the completed work. 
Sample format of a structural certificate at Annex I and the flowchart for 
processing the structural certificate at Annex II are attached for reference. 
If it is found that there is pump(s) seated directly on the roof or floor slab 
of the existing building without calculation and certification by an AP or RSE, 
Buildings Department may take appropriate action on the pump( s) on safety ground. 
-5 -
Annex I 
SAMPLE FORMAT 
Certificate of Structural Safety of Building 
for FS Pump Directly Seated on Roof or Floor Slab 
To: Fire Services Department 
I (full name of AP or RSE), hereby certify that the building known as 
( address of the building) is capable of bearing the load and stresses which may be 
increased or altered in any way by reason of the fire service installation work 
completed at (location of installation, e.g. roof floor). 
2. I have checked the structural adequacy of the existing building 
structures and have kept the supporting calculation. Upon request, the supporting 
calculation can be available for inspection. 
3. Details of the completed fire service pump installation and the affected 
structural elements are as follows: 
Date: 
(a) F" Ire service pump -
Pump No.# 
Pump static 
weight including 
individual pump 
casing (kg) 
(b) Affected structural elements shown in the attached plan 
( e.g. beam/slab marked on approved framing plan) 
( c) Design code adopted for checking: 
( e.g. LCC, BS8110) 
( d) Record photos of the completed work. 
(Signature) 
* Authorized Person/Registered Structural Engineer 
Certificate of Registration No.: ____ _ 
Date of Expiry of Registration: ____ _ 
# Refer to the attached plan showing the pump locations 
* Delete whichever is inapplicable 
- 6 -
Annex II 
Flowchart for Processing of Structural Certificate 
in respect of FS Pump Directly Seated on Roof or Floor Slab 
1: Registered Fire Service 
Installation Contractor 
(RFSIC) plans to install 
pump(s) directly on roof/ floor 
slab. 
2: Appointment of AP/RSE. 
RFSIC provides pump(s) details including 
pump casing to AP or RSE. 
3: AP or RSE checks structural adequacy of building 
and verifies that no building work is involved in the 
pump(s) installation. 
4: RFSIC installs pump(s) on roof/ floor 
slab. 
Date of FAX 5: RFSIC reports completion of work and AP/RSE submits structural 
certificate (SC) and related documents to FSD. 
FSD requests assistance of Structural Consultancy Unit (SCU)/BD 
by fax and sends referral to SCU/BD via normal dispatch. 
* The rate of audit check is fixed at 
100% and will be reviewed from 
time to time. 
6: SCU/BD receives FAX from FSD. 
No 
8: SCU/BD requests AP/RSE to provide calculation. 
SCU/BD retrieves relevant official records. 
9: SCU/BD checks acceptability of SC. 
Not later than 30 days from the Date of Fax ............ 10: SCU/BD replies the request of FSD. 
11: FSD gives coordinated reply to 
RFSIC andAP/RSE. 