5Jii~JJ~ 
AA!~&ffl:tlt!~~ 
ii'~ 1L ~ ~)j> DJl !fHlll l~Uf m l ~ 
5fl11lfj~~'/lll*Jli 51! 
lfi.:~;fi:i'f OUR REF.: (6) in FP(LC) 314/07 Pt.10 
*~;fi:i'f YOUR REF.: 
iffl:X:f$Jl FAX: (852) 2367 3631 
il[-=fjjl{if: E-MAIL: lcpolic2@hkfsd.gov.hk 
ii[ if.!; TEL. NO.: (852) 2733 7619 
FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
LICENSING AND CERTIFICATION COMMAND 
5/F, Fire Services Headquarters Building 
No. I Hong Chong Road, Tsim Sha Tsui East 
Kowloon, Hong Kong 
11 June 2021 
To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
FSD Circular Letter No. 6/2021 
Standard for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm Systems for Buildings 
This Circular Letter serves to announce the adoption, with local modifications, of 
the British Standard 5839-1: 2017 (Incorporating Corrigendum No.I) Fire Detection and 
Fire Alarm Systems for Buildings -Part 1: Code of practice for design, installation, 
commissioning and maintenance of systems in non-domestic premises (the "Standard"). 
Following the introduction of the Standard, the Fire Services Department (FSD) 
has reviewed the specifications for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm Systems for Buildings as 
well as the corresponding Testing and Commissioning Checklist which was issued via FSD 
Circular Letter No. 1/2015. 
The review was conducted by a Sub-working Group of the Fire Safety Standard 
Advisory Group which was set up and tasked to assess the feasibility and practicability of 
adopting the Standard and make necessary revisions to the Testing and Commissioning 
Checklist. After comprehensive discussions and extensive consultations with the trade and 
other interested parties, the Sub-working Group has meticulously formulated a Technical 
Guidance by making reference to the figures, tables and other technical details of the 
Standard. Except for the clauses/parts of the Standard covered in the Technical Guidance, 
all other clauses/parts in the recommendations of the Standard should be followed directly. 
Relevant clauses/parts of the Standard specified in Part 2 of the Technical Guidance are 
either "not to be applied locally", "to be revised" or "for reference only" with due 
consideration given to local circumstances and relevant codes requirements. The Technical 
Guidance is intended to facilitate local trade to apply the Standard in Hong Kong. It should 
be read in conjunction with the Standard, including the Notes and Recommendations, and 
relevant codes requirements quoted therein. 
. .. ./2 
Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
fL :m :& * {§ Dey ~~ i:l I iii! ~I llm :& B Wl 
-2-
Apart from updating of relevant requirements with reference to the Standard, main 
areas of revision of the Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire 
Alarm System for Buildings are as follows: 
(a) Requirement of smoke detectors in residential flat with open kitchen; 
(b) Ceiling height limit for different type of detectors; 
( c) Minimum fire resisting cable requirements for FSI as specified in FSD Circular 
Letter No.2/2017; and 
( d) System integrity requirements for linear heat detection system. 
The modifications specified in the Technical Guidance attached to this letter, the 
British Standard 5839-1:2017 (Incorporating Corrigendum No.I) and the revised Testing 
and Commissioning Checklist are to be adopted as the standard referred to in the Codes of 
Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment and Inspection, Testing and 
Maintenance of Installations and Equipment. 
The Technical Guidance and the revised Testing and Commissioning Checklist are 
attached at Appendix I and Appendix II and they can also be downloaded from the FSD's 
official website: 
https :/ /www .hkfsd.gov .hk/eng/fire protection/notices/ 
The Standard with local modifications as well as the revised Testing and 
Commissioning Checklist will be applicable for all initial submissions of building plans 
received by this Department on or after 1 January 2022. 
Encl. 
Yours faithfully, 
(LEUNG K wun-hong) 
for Director of Fire Services 
Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
fL m & * {§ 11~n~ 5 I izUiBR & El Wl 
Appendix I 
HONGKONG 
FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
TECHNICAL GUIDANCE 
Application of BS 5839-1:2017 (Incorporating Corrigendum No. 1) 
Fire Detection and Fire Alarm Systems for Buildings in Hong Kon g 
Part 1: Cod e of practice for design, installation, commi ssioning and 
m aintenance of system s in non-dom estic premises 
June 2021 
PREAMBLE 
The specification of the design, installation, acceptance testing and maintenance of the fire 
detection and fire alarm systems in Hong Kong is stipulated in the Codes of Practice for 
Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment and Inspection, Testing and Maintenance 
of Installations and Equipment, in which the British Standard 5839 Part 1 for the Fire Detection 
and Fire Alarm Systems for Buildings shall be followed. 
The publication of the British Standard 5839-1:2002 + A2: 2008- Fire Detection and Fire Alarm 
Systems for Buildings - Part 1: Code of Practice for System Design, Installation, Commissioning 
and Maintenance has been adopted locally since July 2009 vide FSD Circular Letter No.1/2009. 
With the release of the 2017 edition of BS 5839 Part 1 ("the Standard"), a Sub-working Group 
("SG") of the Fire Safety Standards Advisory Group ("FSSAG") was set up and tasked to conduct 
a holistic review on the Standard for its applicability and practicability of local application. 
The SG was consisted of members of the FSSAG representing different stakeholders of the 
trade including the Hong Kong Institution of Engineers, the Institution of Fire Engineers, the 
Society of Fire Protection Engineers - Hong Kong Chapter, Housing Department, Architectural 
Services Department as well as the Association of Registered Fire Service Installation 
Contractors of Hong Kong. After comprehensive discussions as well as extensive 
consultation with the trade and respective parties of interests, the SG has meticulously 
formulated this Technical Guidance by making reference to the figures, tables and other 
technical details of the Standard. The clauses of the Standard are arranged into two parts, 
namely commentary and recommendations. Except for the clauses/parts of the Standard 
covered in this technical guidance, all the requirements as stipulated in the recommendations 
(including NOTE) of the Standard need to be followed. The commentary only serves as an 
explanatory background to the recommendations, especially if the recommendations might 
appear to be arbitrary. Relevant clauses/parts of the Standard specified in Part 2 of this 
Technical Guidance are either "not to be applied locally", "to be revised" or "for reference only'' 
with due consideration on the local situations and relevant Code's requirements. 
This Technical Guidance is intended to facilitate stakeholders of local trade to apply the 
Standard in Hong Kong. It should be read in conjunction with the Standard and the relevant 
requirement of codes quoted therein. The application of the Standard will be reviewed 
pertinent to local situation. 
2 
PART 1 - Abbreviations 
The following abbreviations shall be used in this guidance: 
BD 
BS 5839-1 / Standard 
EECoP 
FH/HR 
FS Code 
FSCC 
FSCoP 
FSD 
FSD CL 
FSSAG 
Buildings Department 
BS 5839 - 1 : 2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No.1 - Fire 
detection and fire alarm systems for buildings - Part 1: Code 
of practice for system design, installation, commissioning and 
maintenance 
Code of Practice for the Electricity (Wiring) Regulations issued 
by the Electrical and Mechanical Services Department 
Fire Hydrant/ Hose reel 
Code of Practice for Fire Safety in Buildings, 2011 issued by 
the Buildings Department 
Fire Services Communications Centre 
Codes of Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and 
Equipment and Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of 
Installations and Equipment issued by Hong Kong Fire Services 
Department 
Hong Kong Fire Services Department 
Fire Services Department Circular Letter 
Fire Safety Standards Advisory Group 
3 
How to Use this Technical Guidance 
In this Technical Guidance, information in the entries arranged in the same order of the 
Rules. One should first read the Clause of the Standard and then check the corresponding 
part of this Guidance in order to apply them properly to suit local requirements. Below is 
an example of the arrangement of the entries: -
Relevant Clause 
Specific part of the Clause and its number 
of the Rules are quoted here in Bold. 
Citation 
Relevant wording of the Clause is cited inside[" "] 
for ease of identification. 
~ , Clause 12.2.2 e) 2) ["during the design stage, the ...... should be used. NOTE 3 A special , 
tool in this context ...... can be used as screwdrivers."] should be revised and read as -
"Any removal of detector from the system shall trigger both the audio and visual fault alarm 
signals at the CIE ." ., 
Note: This clause is to avoid having detectors removed maliciously. -
Symbols 
"Note:" is supplemented with 
additional information. 
Clause with the symbol means : -
lli8J not to be applied locally 
~ to be revised 
[]J not mandatory and for reference only 
Revised Clause is highlighted in blue color for ease of reading. 
4 
PART 2 - Clauses in BS 5839 - 1: 2017 (Incorporating Corrigendum No.1) which 
are either 'not to be applied locally', 'to be revised' or 'for reference only' 
~ The fourth to sixth paragraphs of Foreword are not to be applied locally 
[Paragraph 4: 
11
National building regulations [2, 3, 4} ...... and fire alarm systems~"] 
[Paragraph 5: 
11
Although this standard makes ...... a fire risk assessment."] 
[Paragraph 6: 
11
The fire and rescue authority can advise ...... might be appropriate."] 
Note: The provision of fire detection and alarm systems in Hong Kong shall follow local regulations and FSCoP . 
The first paragraph of Clause 1 should be revised and read as 
"This part of BS 5839-1 provides recommendations for the planning, design, installation, 
commissioning and maintenance of fire detection and fire alarm systems in and around 
buildings. It does not recommend whether or not a fire alarm system should be installed in any 
given premises." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements of FSCoP . 
The sixth paragraph of Clause 1 should be revised and read as 
"This part of BS 5839-1 does not cover the systems combining fire alarm functions with other 
non-fire related functions." 
Note: This is to suit local practice as DD CLC/TS 50398 is not practiced locally. 
~ The ninth and tenth paragraphs of Clause 1 are not to be applied locally 
[Paragraph 9: 
11
Recommendations for fire detection and ...... given in this part of BS 5839-1. "] 
[Paragraph 10: 
11
Recommendations for fire detection and ...... SHTM 82 {N2} (in Scotland)."] 
Note: This is to follow the local requirements of FSCoP. 
The last paragraph of Clause 1 should be revised and read as 
"This part of BS 5839-1 applies to extensions and alterations to existing systems, unless such 
extension and alteration do not involve major alterations and additions to the building in excess 
of 50% by volume." 
Note: This clause is to follow the same spirit as stipulated in Part VI of FSD Circular Letter No. 4/96. 
5 
Clause 3.2 should be revised and read as 
"alarm receiving centre ARC 
Approved service provider's Computerized Fire Alarm Transmission System or approved 
manned centre" 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
Clause 3.24 should be revised and read as 
"fire-resisting construction 
construction that is able to satisfy for a stated period of time some or all of the appropriate 
criteria given under the relevant Building Regulations" 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 3.37 should be revised and read as 
"maximum alarm load 
maximum load imposed on a fire alarm system power supply under fire conditions, com prising 
the power required for simultaneous operation of the general alarms ( external fire alarm 
sounders) and all fire alarm devices in the entire building, fire signals from an automatic fire 
detector and a manual call point in the building, any powe r drawn by other systems and 
equipment in the alarm condition and any power required for transmission of fire signals to an 
ARC whe re provided" 
Note: This clause is to clarify the calculation for the maximum alarm load. 
Clause 3.42 should be revised and read as 
"prim ary power supply 
supply from which the fire detection and fire alarm is expected to obtain its power under normal 
condition 
NOTE The terms 'Mains Supply(ies) ', 'Mains power supply(ies) ' & 'low voltage mains supply(ies) ' 
using in this Code should be referred as 'primary power supply' 
11 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
The following new Clause 3.69 should be added 
"fire service access point 
fire service access point is a place of a building/development designated for the access to 
fireman's lift according to Clause D7 .1 of PS Code " 
Note: This clause is to add the definition for "fire service access point". 
6 
The following new Clause 3.70 should be added 
"ultimate place of safety 
ultimate place of safety is a place of a building/development provided according to Section 3, 
Part A of FS Code " 
Note: This clause is to add the definition for "fire service access point". 
The following new Clause 3.71 should be added 
"emergency generator 
An independently powered electrical generator of sufficient electrical capacity to meet the fire 
service installations and fireman's lifts it is required to provide 
NOTE The term 'standby generator' using in this BS should be referred as 'em ergency generator '
11 
Note: This clause is to add the definition for "emergency generator". 
[]J Clause 4.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
[]J Clause 5.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
,.,. -,.,, -,>••,•-,•• ••,-;,,••• • 'ttf•.-,c;;,:J••""'~l'J'';.l" f~":>,r.•-,--1-•r.-,,,-,-~f"J'"i";,\--.,l"'"'''\•h ,":-=,.T'!"'7 "•~:- -,•••rt•,".,).;-.... •,,.":_"•'"""..,~ ,, .... •• 
'6 -Exchange of information and definitio·n·ofresponsibilities. -! · ·. . '. ··· ·--~: " ·: ,·, .. 
'i..., •• , __, ·-··• I '"-n ·• .- ~ ., • • • , . .-ia -~ -• • ~ •• r -•• •• •• •',. _, •'•,:, ' -' i.:._ ·• _,_ , , • .,, 
[]J Clause 6.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
7 -' ·varlations fror,-; th~ r~co.mmendations of this ·standard,. . - . , . .. . . 
, ~ . - . 
[]J Clause 7.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
7 
(NA) Clause 8.2 is not to be applied locally 
Note: The provision of fire detection and alarm systems in Hong Kong shall follow local regulations and FSCoP. Classification 
of systems into 'Ll, L2 ... Pl, P2' etc. is not adopted in Hong Kong 
Clause 9.2 b) should be revised and read as 
"If no part of BS 7273 is applicable, any special requirements for system design should be 
agreed with FSD ." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
[]J Clause 9.2 c) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: Procedures and requirements for maintenance in this clause shall be taken as reference only. 
Clause 10.2 a) should be revised and read as 
"Any system ( or part of a system) protecting an area, or with cable passing through an area, in 
which there might be an explosive gas, vapour or mist atmosphere should conform to BS EN 
60079-14 or other standards accepted by FSD ." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements and allow more flexibility by adopting the quoted BS EN standard. 
Clause 10.2 b) should be revised and read as 
"Any system ( or part of a system) protecting an area, or w ith cable passing through an area, in 
which there might be an explosive dust atmosphere should conform to BS EN 60079-14, BS 
EN 60079-17 or other standards accepted by FSD. " 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements and allow more flexibility by adopting the quoted BS EN standard. 
• ,- ,l • ..., • .... ' • • • ' • • • ' ' • 
11 System components 
[]J Clause 11.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
8 
12 Monitoring, integrity and reliability of ci~cuits extern 'afto cont.fol equiprrufot.·' _'' ;\·-1 . . -~ . . _. . ~ . ~ ~ -
Clause 12.2.1 Para. 1 should be revised and read as 
"The following recommendations are applicable unless otherwise agreed by FSD. 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
ate: This clause is to clarify the requirements for equipment listed by other standards. 
The following new NOTE of Clause 12.2.1 Para.1 should be added 
NOTE ff the control and indicating equipment has been listed by a product certification body 
recognized by FSD as detailed in FSD Circular Letter as far as practicable, or equivalent, the 
requirements of the standard under which the equipment is listed should be followed." 
Note: This clause is to clarify the requirements for equipment listed by other standards. 
Clause 12.2.1 b) 4) should be revised and read as 
"reduction of the battery voltage to less than the voltage specified in BS EN 54-4 or other 
international standard acceptable to FSD at which a fault warning shall be given (within 30 
min. of occurrence)." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
[]J Clause 12.2.1 g) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
Clause 12.2.2 Para. 1 should be revised with an additional supplementary NOTE and read as 
"The following recommendations are applicable unless otherwise agreed by FSD . 
NOTE : ff the control and indicating equipment has been listed by a product certification body 
recognised by FSD as detailed in FSD Circular Letter as far as practicable, or equivalent, the 
requirements of the standard under which the equipment is listed should be followed." 
Note: This clause is to clarify the requirements for equipment listed by other standards. 
Clause 12.2.2 a) should be revised with an additional supplementary NOTE and read as 
"A fault on one circuit containing manual call points, fire detectors or fire alarm devices, or a 
combination of them, should not affect any other circuit. 
NOTE: For non-addressable system, a fault in one zone circuit should not affect other zone circuit(s), 
if any. For addressable system, a fault in one loop circuit should not affect other loop circuit(s), if 
II 
any. 
Note: This clause is to clarify the requirements. 
9 
Clause 12.2.2 b) should be revised and read as 
"A single short circuit or open circuit fault on an automatic fire detector and/or manual call 
point circuit should neither disable protection within an aggregate floor area of more than 
2,000m 2 (calculated only on those portions of the premises installed with fire detectors), nor on 
more than one floor of a building. 
NOTE : The above requirement does not apply to circuitries in non-addressable system. 
For non-addressable system , a single short circuit or open circuit fault occurred in -
(i) manual call point circuit shall not disable protection on mor e than one floor of the building; 
(ii) a detection circuit shall not disable protection within an aggregate floor area of more than 2,000 ni2 
(calculated only on those portions of the premises installed with fire detectors) or on more than one 
floor of the building." 
Note: This clause is to clarify the calculation method of 2,000 m 2• (See Figure A - Circuit Arrangement For Automatic Fire 
Detection Circuit (Addressable System)) 
10 
I-' 
I-' 
CIRCUIT ARRANGEMENT FOR AUTOMATIC FIRE DETECTION C_!!{CUIT (ADDRESSABLE SYSTEM) Figure A 
LEVEL 4 
Ind ividual Individual (D etection circuit,; 2,000 m 1 ) 
Fire Service Installation Fire Se rvice Installation LEVEL 3 
(Detection circuits 2,000 m 2 ) Individu al (Detection circuits 2,000 m ') (D citection circuit,; 2,ood m ') 
Fire Se rvice Installation 
(Detection circuit,; 2,000 m ') 
LEGENDS : 
® 
@] 
[!] 
0 
D I TI C l OH roR /\Ul O M /II IC r111[ D[HCT ION 
/\N D 111![ /IL/IHM SYSTI M 
M /IN U/ll l/lll i'OI N I (/IDl)Hf.SS /IIJLL) 
M/INU /11 C /11 L i'O IN I (N ON -AIJDlffSS /IDI [ ) 
Sl'HIN KU H rl OW SWI f(II 
rn7 SEN SING Ill.VIC[ I OH /ICIU /l"ll()N or 
L..'.:'.....J A IN DI V IDU/11 I llff Srl1VI C[ IN Sl /111 /I I ION 
(0 11 11 H Ill/IN /IUI O M /IIIC IIHI 
DI I LC I IO N /\N il I llff ill/lllM svs·, rM) 
~ 
E] 
~ 
[] 
5U IISll)li\lW V/ILVI O H Viii VI H I Q Ull!I D 
MON IIO HIN G 
Ill V IC l I OH IN I [HI /IC IN G Wll 11 
NO N ilDDll[SS /IIJI I LQ U ll'M[N I 
Ill V IC I I OH /\C l U /lllO N Of /1\J IOM/1 IIC 
11111. f)[l [CTIO N /\N D I IH r /ll/lllM SYS I rM 
C IIK U I r ISOLA lOH 
r;:-i ilUIO MMI C /IC IU/IIIN G l)LV ILI rem 
L..:...J A INIJIV IIJU /11 I IHI srnv1c1 IN q/111 /IIION 
(O IIILH lllilN/IU WM/lll C flllr 
111 II C IIO N /\Nil 111!1 /II AIIM SY S I [M ) 
(D etection circuit,; 2,000 m 2 ) 
0 V ISU/IL I ll!L ill AHM 
r-;;-;;-J PUMPil N llW/lllH IANK 
L2..'.....J ST /II U S 
~ /11/IIIM SO U NIJI.H 
0 G rN rn/llOH S l/lllJS 
LEVEL 2 
POINT 1 POINT 2 
CONTROL AND INDICATING EQUIPMENT 
(FIRE CONTROL PANEL) 
SY STEM INTEGR ITY REQUIREM ENT S 
A SINGLE SH O RT CIRCUIT O H O PEN ClllCUIT FAU LT ---- -----
LEVEL 1 
SH O ULD NE ITHER DISA BLE PROTECTI ON W IHTIN AN AG GR EG AT E 
FLOOR A REA * O F MOR E TH A N 2,000 m 2 NO R ON M O RE THAN 
O NE FLO OR O F A BU ILD IN G 
'(CALCULATED O NL Y ON THOSE PORTION S OF THE PREM SIES IN STALLED 
WITH FIRE DETECTOR S} 
TWO SIMU LTANEO U S fAULT (POIN T 1 A N D PO INT 2) 
SHOULD NOT D ISAB LE PROT EC TIO N W IH TIN A G ROSS FLO O R AR EA 
G REAT ER THA N 10,000 m 2 
Clause 12.2.2 c) should be revised and read as 
"Two simultaneous faults on an automatic fire detection circuit including fire alarm devices, 
manual call points and fire detectors or a combination of these, should not disable protection 
within a gross floor area greater than 10,000 m 2." 
Note: This clause is to clarify the calculation method of 10,000 m 2• (See Figure A - Circuit Arrangement For Automatic Fire 
Detection Circuit (Addressable System)) 
EiKI Clause 12.2.2 c) NOTE l ["The areas quoted in b) and c) are relatively arbitrary; in case of ..... . 
but this ought then to be regarded as a variation from the recommendations of this standard."} 
is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to eliminate possible grey area in the execution of this standard. 
The following new NOTE of Clause 12.2.2 d) should be added 
"NOTE If the control and indicating equipment has been listed by a product certification body 
recognized by FSD as detailed in FSD Circular Letter as far as practicable, or equivalent the 
requirements of the standard under which the equipment is listed should be followed." 
Note: This clause is to clarify the requirements for equipment listed by other standards. 
Clause 12.2.2 e) 2) ["during the design stage, the ...... should be used. NOTE 3 A special tool 
in this context ...... can be used as screwdrivers."] should be revised and read as 
"Any removal of detector from the system shall trigger both the audio and visual fault alarm 
signals at the CIE." 
Note: This clause is to avoid having detectors removed maliciously. 
Clause 12.2.2 i) should be revised and read as 
"A single open circuit or short circuit fault on any circuit that serves fire alarm sounders and/or 
visual alarm device, should not disable operation of the external fire alarm sounders and the fire 
alarm sounder(s) and/or visual alarm device(s) on the adjacent floor below and the adjacent floor 
above where applicable. The external alarm sounders should still sound c01Tectly if a fire alarm 
condition occurs anywhere within the building and should have an identical sound to the fire 
alarm sounders in the building. 
NOTE 4 It is possible to comply with this recommendation by at least the following two 
arrangements, although other arrangements are not precluded: 
Wiring all fire alarm sounders and/or visual alarm devices on each floor to independent 
circuit(s) separate from that serving the external fire alarm sounders and separate from that 
serving the adjacent floor below and the adjacent floor above where applicable; 
Wiring all fire alarm sounders and/or visual alarm devices on a ring circuit capable of 
12 
transmitting signals in either direction; with a short circuit isolator to separate the external 
fire alarm sounder at the Fire Service Access Point or building entrance as appropriate and 
to separate fire alarm sounders and/or visual alarm devices on the adjacent floor below and 
the adjacent floor above where applicable. 
NOTE 5 The fire alarm sounder(s) and/or visual alar111 devices that continue(:;) to operate will normally 
co111prise the external fire alarm sounders and fire alarm sounders and/or visual alarm devices on the 
respective floors. The zoning on the operation of sounder and visual alarm device where applicable of 
the manual and automatic fire detection system shall comply with those requirements as stipulated in 
FSD Circular Letter No . 4/96 Part VIII" 
Note: Th is clause is to meet local requirements for the sounding of alarms. 
Clause 12.2.2 j) should be revised and read as 
"In buildings designed to accommodate the general public in large numbers ( e.g. transport 
terminals, shopping centres, places of public entertainment, department stores and leisme 
centres), at least two sounder circuits should be provided in every fire compartment of public 
space if the public space is greater than 2,000 m 2. 
This should be achieved by means ( e.g. a protected loop circuit) such that not more than 50% of 
sounders in that area are lost in the event of a single open or short circuit fault." 
Note: This clause is to clarify the calculation method of public place since the use of number of people is impractical. 
I@ Clause 12.2.2 j) NOTE 6 ["The figures of 4000m 2 and 500 members of the public are 
arbitrary, ...... as a variation from the recommendations of this standard."] is not to be applied 
locally 
Note: This is to eliminate possible grey area in the execution of this standard. 
Clause 12.2.2 I) should be revised and read as 
"Where a power supply unit or a standby battery(ies) are housed in a separated enclosure from 
the CIE , any cable between that enclosure and the CIE should be suitably protected against 
overcurrent in accordance with EECoP ." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
The following new Clause 12.2.2 m) should be added 
"Linear Heat Detectors 
(i) For protection area not exceeding 2,000 m 2, a single short circuit or open circuit fault on the 
linear heat detection cable should not disable protection within the area of 2,000 m 2 by 
providing linear heat detection cable ammgement as shown in figure below. 
13 
LIN EAR HEAT DE TE CTIO N 
I FP 
I ~ 
I 
I DTS 
I 
CABLE RU N IN A LOO P 
CASE 1 - Protected Area ~ 2,000 m 2 
(ii) For protection area exceeding 2,000 m 2, duplicate linear heat detection cables w ith its 
associated control panels, should be provided with configuration as recommended by 
manufacturer, to form a complete redundancy as show n in figure below." 
r DUAL LINEAR HEAT DETECT ION 
// CABLE RUN IN A LOOP 
B 
I "' FP -:-.. DTS f---------"'-/+--,, I 
-.. - IL__DT_S__J--------~ 
CA SE 2 - Protected Area > 2,000 m 2 
LEGE N D 
~ : FIRE PANE L 
B : DISTR IBUTED TEMPERA TUR E SENS ING INSTR U MENT 
Note: This clause is to add requirements on linear heat detectors. 
::Kl Figure 1 is not mandatory and for reference only. 
Note: This figure shall be taken as reference only. 
Clause 13.2.1 a) should be revised and read as 
"The manua l call points located within the stairwells at the final exits to open air on ground 
storey or ultimate place of safety should be incorporated within the manual call point zone of 
the level /zone adjoining that final exit; i.e., the manu al call point at final exit of staircase at 
ground floor level or ultimate place of safety shall be incorporated into the manual call point 
zone of ground floor or the level of the ultimate place of safety [see 13.2.3 c)]." 
Note: This clause is to clarify the arrangement for the manual call points which located at the final exits to open air. 
Clause 13.2.1 b) should be revised and read as 
"If the total floor area of the building is greater than 300m 2 calculated on those portions of the 
premises installed with fire detectors, each zone should be restricted to a single storey." 
14 
Note: This clause is to clarify the calculation method of 300 m 2• 
Clause 13.2.1 c) should be revised and read as 
"If the total floor area of the building is less than 300m 2 calculated on those po11ions of the 
premises installed with fire detectors, a zone may cover more than a single storey." 
Note: This clause is to clarify the calculation method of 300 m 2• 
Clause 13.2.1 d) should be revised and read as 
"For voids above or below the floor area of a room , these may be included within the same zone 
of the room , provided that the voids and the room constitute a single fire compartment. The 
meaning of compartment shall be as defined in FS Code ." 
Note: This clause is to clarify the definition of fire compartment . 
Clause 13.2.2 should be revised and read as 
"The zoning of manual call points shall be at least one zone per floor." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
Clause 13.2.3 a) should be revised and read as 
"The floor area of a single zone should not exceed 2,000 m 2 calculated on those portions of 
the premises installed with fire detectors." 
Note: Th is clause is to clarify the calculation method of 2,000 m 2• 
Clause 13.2.3 b) should be revised and read as 
"The search distance, i.e., the distance that has to be travelled by a searcher inside the zone in 
order to dete1mine visually the position of the fire, should not exceed 30 m . For non-addressable 
system, remote indicator lamps outside doors, etc., may be helpful, especially if doors are likely 
to be locked. By making an area easier to search, the use of remote indicator lamps may reduce 
the need for a large number of small zones." 
Note: This clause is to meet the requirements of FSCoP and incorporate the agreement in FSSAG meeting No . 33. 
Clause 13.2.3 c) should be revised and read as 
"Au tomatic fire detectors within stairwell should be incorporated within the zone that serves the 
adjacent accommodation on that level. Automat ic fire detectors w ithin any lift-well or other 
enclosed flue-like structure should be considered as a separate detection zone. Manual call points 
located at the final exits to open air on Ground Storey from stairwells may be incorporated within 
the manual call point zone that serves the adjacent accommodation described in modified 13 .2.1 
a)." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice and align FS CoP in buildings definition. 
15 
Clause 13.2.4 b) except NOTE should be revised and read as 
"The recommendations of 13.2.3 apply, except that 13.2.3 b) does not apply if: 
1) clear addressable text display of the location in either English or Chinese of, at least, the first 
detector to respond to a fire is available at the CIE , without manual intervention; and 
2) the display, in conjunction with layout plans should be provided adjacent to the CIE for 
enabling fire-fighters, unfamiliar with the building, to proceed to the location of the fire." 
Note: This clause is to enhance the presentation and indication of fire location and facilitate searching by fire-fighters. 
Clause 13.2.5 Para. 1 should be revised and read as 
"Remote indicating lamps should be provided for detectors in inaccessible area such as ceiling 
void, or floor void if the recommendations in 13 .2.4 b) 1) & 2) are not provided. The remote 
indicating lamp plates should be clearly labelled with the words "Fire ;}( ~" and the location of 
detectors they serve should be represented by graphic symbol. 
General Specification of Remote Indicating Lamp Plates 
Specifications 
1. The colours for the plate, the graphic pattern and the wording should be suitably chosen so 
as to provide luminous contrast for the purpose of clear identification at a distance. 
2. The indicating lamp should be red in colour. 
3. The height of English letters and Chinese characters should not be less than I O mm and 15 
mm respectively or should follow the latest specifications issued by the Director of Fire 
Services from time to time. 
4. The designs of remote indicating lamp plates for detectors in respective locations, i.e. floor 
voids, ceiling voids and lockable rooms , should follow the relevant graphic pattern 
illustrated below :-
(a) Figure 1 - For Detectors inside Floor Voids 
(b) Figure 2 - For Detectors inside Ceiling Voids 
(c) Figure 3 - For Detector inside Lockable Rooms " 
16 
Indicating Lamp (Red) 
30mm 
Not less than 85 mm 
30mm 
Fire 
Not less than 85 mm 
Figure l - For Detectors inside Floor Voids 
Not less than 85 mm 
30mm 
Fire 
Not less than 85 mm 
Figure 2 - Fo r Detectors inside C eiling Voids 
17 
Not less than 85 mm 
30mm 
Fire 
Not less than 85 mm 
Figure 3 - For Detector inside Lockable Rooms 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements for remote indicator labelling and clarify the requirement for the provision of 
remote indicator. For addressable system, remote indicator lamp is not required. 
:Kl Clause 13.2.5 Note is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. The provision of remote indicator is subject to certain conditions and to 
follow the modified requirements in Clause 13.2.5. 
I@ Figure 2 - Examples of search distances in an open area is not to be applied locally 
Note: The FS Code should be followed. 
~ Clause 14.2 c) should be revised and read as 
"A common signal should be used throughout all alarm zones to convey the need for evacuation." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
Clause 14.2 e) should be revised and read as 
"The configuration of alarm zone shall comply with the requirement as stipulated m FSD 
Circular Letter No . 4/96 Part VIII." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
18 
Clause 15.2 should be revised and read as 
"A direct line connection shall be provided to the Computerized Fire Alaim Transmission 
System (CFATS) of an authorized service provider or an approved manned centre." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirement as stipulated in FSCoP . 
The title of Clause 16.2.1 should be revised and read as 
"Recommendations applicable to all types of premises." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirement since fire alarm systems are not classified into categories in Hong Kong. 
Clause 16.2.1 a) should be revised and read as 
II 
1) a minimum sound level of either 60 dB(A) or 5 dB(A) above any noise likely to persist 
for a period longer than 30s, whichever is the greater for domestic building or either 
65 dB(A) or 5 dB(A) above any noise likely to persist for a period longer than 30s, 
whichever is the greater for other type of building. The location of all sound 
measurement shall be taken at three metres from the inside of the main entrance door 
with all windows fully opened in the flat/unit and all doors shut at 
(a) all flats for domestic building, 
(b) all rooms for institutional/hotel buildings and 
( c) all rooms/premises for other types of building 
The sound pressure level requirement does not apply to all required staircases as 
defined in the FS Code and the associated protected lobbies which lead only to such 
staircases. 
2) not greater than 120 dB(A) at any normally accessible point." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice for audibility of alarm. 
:II Clause 16.2.1 d) Note 11 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: Phased evacuation is subject to the approval of BD / FSD . 
Clause 16.2.1 d) Note 12 should be revised and read as 
"Where the sound pressure level of the music is likely to be between 60 dB(A) and 80 dB(A) , 
the recommendation of 16.2. la) 1) applies." 
Note: This clause is to align with the amendment for modified 16.2.1 a). 
19 
Clause 16.2.1 f) should be revised and read as 
"E xternal fire alarm sounders should be provided at 
(a) 'Fire Service Access Point' or building entrance if "Fire Service Access Point" 1s not 
provided; AND 
(b) Control and indicating equipment. 
The sow1der should be clearly marked with the words "FIRE ALARM " ";)(_ ff-"." 
Note: This clause is to clarify the requirements for external fire alarm sounders to meet local requirement. 
Clause 16.2.1 h) should be revised and read as 
"Alarm signals should not silence automatically." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 16.2.1 i) should be revised and read as 
"The system should incorporate at least two fire alarm sounders, even if the recommended sound 
pressure levels could be achieved with one sounder. At least one sounder should be provided in 
each fire compa1iment. 
Fire alarm sounder should be installed within 2m of the hose reel point. 
NOTE : The meaning of compartm ent shall be as defined in FS Code ." 
Note: This clause is to clarify the definition of fire compartment and to align the discussion in FSSAG Meeting No. 32. 
::Kl Clause 16.2.1 j) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
Clause 16.2.1 k) should be revised and read as 
"Fire alarm sounders should not be used for purposes other than warning of fire." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements as pre-alarm of fire is also considered as a warning of fire. 
NA] Figure 4 - Sound pressure levels is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to align with the current local practice as stipulated in item of this FSD Circular Letter. 
NA] Clause 16.2.2 is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to follow local requirement. 
NA] Clause 16.2.3 is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to follow the modified requirements in Clause 16.2.1. 
20 
~ Clause 17.2 should be revised and read as 
"Visual alarm signals (Visual Fire Alarm) should be provided as per Design Manual: Barrier 
Free Access and table below. 
Extent of Application of Visual Alarm Signals 
Tyue of Building / Nature of Occuuancy Reguirement 
Club house, whether ancillary to domestic 
development , serviced apartment and student Yes 
hostel or not. 
Carpark, whether ancillary to domestic 
development , serviced apartment and student Yes 
hostel or not 
For non-guestroom areas: Yes 
For guestroom areas: Required for the 
Hotel, guesthouse and hostel accessible guestrooms stipulated under 
paragraph 7(2) of the Manual , and the access 
thereof 
Exempted areas listed in paragraph 2.2 of the 
No 
Manual 
Exempted areas listed in paragraph 5.2.3(b) of 
No 
the Manual 
All other types/natures 
As required by Table 2 in Chapter 2 of the 
Manual 
The requirements of visual alarm are as follows: 
a) Visual alarm devices should be sufficient in number and distribution to be readily visible 
from all normally accessible locations, throughout the area in which they are provided, 
under normal ambient lighting levels. At least one visual alarm signal should be provided 
for each compartment The maximum distance between 2 visual alarm signals should not 
exceed 60m . 
b) The visual alarm signal should flash at a rate within the range of 30 to 120 flashes per 
minute. 
c) The visual alarm signal should be clearly distinguishable from any other visual signal used 
in the premises. Visual alann signals should be red in colour with label in accordance with 
FSCoP . 
d) The intensity of output of visual alarm devices should be not less than 15 ed. 
21 
e) Visual alarms should be securely fixed in accordance with the mounting position (ceiling 
or wall) and orientation specified by the manufacturer. The mounting height should not be 
less than 2.1 m." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
1ffi:l Clause 18.2.1 a) NOTE is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to follow local requirement. 
:::!J Clause 18.2.1 b) toe) are not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: These clauses shall be taken as reference for good practice only. Local Design Manual: Barrier Free Access shall be 
followed. 
:::!J Clause 18.2.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. Local Design Manual: Barrier Free Access shall be followed. 
:::!J Clause 19.2.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
:::!J Clause 19.2.3 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
Clause 20.2 a) should be revised and read as 
"The method of operation of all MCPs in a system should be that of type A as specified in BS 
EN54 -1 l." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice since it may not be practical to provide identical call points for the entire 
premise/building. 
:::!J Clause 20.2 b) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
22 
Clause 20.2 c) NOTE 3 should be revised and read as 
"BS EN 54-2 permits a delay of up to 10 s, in the response of control equipment; accordingly, a 
delay of 10 s might be acceptable, subject to the assessment and acceptance of the FSD. (see 
also Clause 24.2 e))." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
Clause 20.2 d) should be revised and read as 
"Manual call points should be located at each hose reel point and, in particular, adjacent to all 
storey exits (or the entrance lobby in lieu if such lobby leads only to the storey exits) within a 
distance of not more than 2 m and adjacent to all staircase exits / exits to open air on G /F or 
place of ultimate safety. Manual call points should not be located on stairway landings ( other 
than at staircase exits to open air on G /F or ultimate place of safety), as persons traveling along 
the stairway might operate a manual call point several floors from that on which a fire is located, 
resulting in evacuation of inappropriate areas. 
In ground storey level, manual call point is not required for the direct exits to outside of building 
from plant rooms or rooms required authorization to access. 
For exit opening 12 m in width or more , two manual call points shall be provided, one at each 
end of the opening before such exit ( or before the entrance lobby in lieu if such lobby leads only 
to the exit) and within a distance of not more than 2 m from each end of the opening." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
NA) Clause 20.2 e) is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to suit local practice. 
NA) Clause 20.2 f) is not to be applied locally 
Note: Location of MCPs shall follow the amended Clause 20.2 e) to suit local practice. 
NA) Clause 20.2 g) is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to follow local requirement. 
Clause 20.2 i) should be revised and read as 
"MCPs should be fixed at a height of 0.9 m - 1.2 m above finished floor level, at easily 
accessible, well-illuminated and conspicuous positions free from potential obstruction." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
NA) Clause 20.2 i) Note 7 and Note 8 are not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to follow local requirement. 
23 
Clause 20.2 j) should be revised and read as 
"MCPs should be surface mounted or semi-recessed mounted as per manufacturer's design." 
Note: This clause is to provide a clear requirement and to suit the manufacturer's design on semi-recessed type manual call 
points. 
}@ Clause 20.2 k) is not to be applied locally 
Note: Emergency voice commun ication system in lieu of manual call point is not accepted locally. 
}@ Figure 6 - Manual call points on escape routes is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to eliminate any possible ambiguity in requirements. 
Clause 21.2 a) should be revised and read as 
"The type(s) of fire detector used in a system should provide adequate protection of premises, 
while minimizing the risk of false alarms as far as practicable (see Section 3). In case of doubt, 
there should be early consultation between all interested parties (see Clause 6). Maintenance 
requirements for different types of detector should also be taken into consideration, along with 
any special requirements of the user ( e.g. regarding the impact of the fire detection system on 
aesthetics)." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 21.2 b) should be revised and read as 
"Heat detectors may be used in any area, other than the following: 
1) on entire floor if such floor is used for sleeping accommodation (but heat detectors may be 
used in toilets, bathrooms and staircases which are covered by sprinkler system, and in 
electrical/mechanical rooms and kitchens); and 
2) areas in which heat detectors wou ld have a high potential for false alarms (see Section 3)." 
Note: Th is clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 21.2 d) should be revised and read as 
"smoke detectors installed within corridors and stairways that form part of the means of escape 
should be of the optical type, unless the use of optical detectors would significantly increase the 
rate of false alarms (see Section 3). 
NOTE 6 Multi-sensors containing a smoke detector might be suitable in circumstances referred to in 
21.2c) and 21.2d)." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
24 
The first paragraph of Clause 21.2 g) 2) should be revised and read as 
"2) rooms opening onto escape routes;" 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
The first Sentence of Clause 21.2 g) 3) should be revised and read as 
"3) all escape routes provided carbon monoxide detectors are used in conjunction with smoke 
detectors." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
The following new NOTE 9 of Clause 21.2 j) should be added 
"N OTE 9: The application of video fire detectors shall be subject to the assessment and acceptance of 
FSD ." 
Note: This clause is to add a note to suit local practice. 
Clause 22.2 a) should be revised and read as 
"Fire detectors should be provided in accordance with the requirement of FSCoP / approved 
building plans." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 22.2 c) should be revised and read as 
"If any flue-like structure, shaft for a lift, escalator or hoist, or any enclosed chute, penetrates 
one or more ceilings, a fire detector should be sited at the top of the shaft or enclosure and, on 
each level in the accommodation area, within approximately 1.5 m of the penetration. 
For lift machine room located directly above the lift shaft with opening in between for 
suspension wire, fire detector installed inside the machine room could substitute the fire detector 
required at the top of lift shaft. 
NOTE 1 For any of these flue-like structures a fire detector within 1.5 111 is needed only in the areas 
protected by fire detection system." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 22.2 d) should be revised and read as 
"For any area requiring an automatic fue detection system that contains a horizontal void of 800 
mm or more in height, automatic fire detection should also be provided in the void. Voids less 
than 800 mm in height need not be protected, unless either: 
25 
1) the void is such that extensive spread of fire or smoke , particularly between rooms and 
compartments, can take place before detection; or 
2) on the basis of a fire risk assessment, the fire risk in the void is such as to warrant protection 
of the void. 
NOT E 2 It is common practice to ...... Guidanc e on protection of electronic data processing installations 
is given in BS 6266." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
:Il Clause 22.3 b) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: Actuation of release mechanisms for doors require special approval. This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
Clause 22.3 e) should be revised and read as 
"Other than in voids (see 22.3g)) or where a horizontal ceiling comprises a series of small cells 
(see 22.31)), fire detectors should be sited on ceilings, such that their sensitive elements are 
between the following distances below ceilings: 
1) 25 mm - 600 mm for smoke detectors; 
2) 25 mm - 150 mm for heat detectors." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
The first paragraph of Clause 22.3 f) should be revised and read as 
"Detectors within rooms that open onto escape routes should either be sited in accordance with 
22.3e) or should be sited on a wall, close to any door that opens onto an escape route." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
C]J Clause 22.3 f) NOTE 7 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: "Protecting escape route only" is not applicable locally. This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
The first Sentence of Clause 22.3 g) should be revised and read as 
"In unventilated voids (non-perforated void) not greater than 1.5m in depth, the sensing element 
of fire detectors should be sited within the top 10% of the void or the top 125 mm , whichever is 
the greater (see Figure 8)." 
Note: This clause is to eliminate possible ambiguity. 
Clause 22.3 h) should be revised and read as 
"Heat and smoke detectors should not be mounted within 500 mm of any walls, partitions or 
obstructions to flow of smoke and hot gases, such as structural beams and ductwork, where the 
obstructions are greater than 250 mm in depth. (This recommendation does not apply to detectors 
26 
within room s opening into escape routes)." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 22.3 k) NOTE 11 should be revised and read as 
"NOTE 11 Within horizontal voids, beams or obstructions that are deeper than 10% of the height between 
the structural floor and structural ceiling regardless of wh ether the void is above the ceiling or below 
the.floor, should be treated as walls that sub-divide the void." 
Note: This clause is to adopt a practical approach to suit local condition. 
The following new NOTE 1 and NOTE 2 of Clause 22.3 p) should be added 
"NOTE 1: This requirem ent is not applicable/or detectors inside ceiling and floor voids." 
'"NOTE 2: If an area has no horizontal dimension greater than 1 m , this recomm endation is not 
applicable." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice and align with Clause 22.3 h) NOTE 8. 
The following new Clause 22.3 q) should be added 
"Intermediate Horizontal Surfaces (such as ducts, loading platforms, and storage racks)-
Protection shall be provided under intermediate horizontal surfaces such as ducts, loading 
platforms, and storage racks in excess of 3 .5 m in width and whose undersurface is in excess of 
800 mm above the floor. 
Where the distance from the underside of the intermediate surface to the ceiling is less than 800 
mm , the underside of the intermediate surface may be considered as the ceiling and does not 
require detectors above the intermediate surface. 
If the side of the duct or structure is in excess of 800 mm from the wall or other ducts or 
structures, detectors shall be provided at the highest accessible point on the ceiling." 
Note: In the absence of recommendation on siting of the heat and smoke detectors under intermediate horizontal surfaces in 
the BS, relevant Clauses in Australian Standard AS 1670.1-2004 are to be adopted as a supplement. 
Figure 11 c) of Clause 22.3 I) should be revised and read as 
27 
Half 
M M 
0 10 0 0-
-
3 
Ke y 
1 HalfM 
2 Detector 
Plan view 
NOTE 1 In this example bean downstands are greater than 10% of ceiling height, H. H = 3 m. 
NOTE 2 Smoke detectors are used in this example. Using Table 2, the spacing M should be no more than 2.3 m 
Figure 11 c) - Ceilings: Cells formed from joists [see 22.3k) and 22.31)] 
The following new 'Key '4" of Figure 12 of Clause 22.3 o) should be added 
"Key 
4 Plan view" 
Note: This clause is to add description. 
'Key 'H" of Figure 14 of Clause 22.3 I) should be revised and read as 
"Key 
H Ceiling height (structural floor to structural ceiling)" 
Note: This clause is to clarify the calculation of ceiling height and in line with the amendment for Clause22.3 k) Note 11. 
'Key 'H" of Figure 15 of Clause 22.3 I) should be revised and read as 
"Key 
H Ceiling height (structural floor to structural ceiling)" 
Note: This clause is to clarify the calculation of ceiling height and in line w ith the amendment for Clause22.3 k) Note 11. 
28 
Table 3 of Clause 22.9 should be revised and read as 
Table 3 (revised) - Limits of Ceiling Height 
Item Detector Type 
1 Heat detectors 
Class Al (BS EN 54-5) 
Other classes 
2 Point smoke detectors 
General limit 
3 Carbon monoxide detectors 
General limit 
4 Optical beam smoke detectors 
Normal sensitivity 
Enhanced sensitivity 
(alarm at 35% attenuation or less) 
5 Aspirating smoke detection systems 
General limit 
Class C with at least 5 holes (BS EN 54-20) 
Class C with at least 15 holes (BS EN 54-20) 
Class B w ith at least 15 holes (BS EN 54-20) 
6 Flame Detector 
Class 3 
Class 2 
Class 1 
Other conditions (Higher than 25111) 
7 Conventional Type Linear Heat Detector 
General limit same as heat detector and detail 
Class A I same as heat detector (BS EN 54-22) 
Other conditions (i.e. Protect a particular item of plant 
or cabling at height level) BS 5839 -1 Clause 22.6 e) 
8 Optical Fibers Type Linear Heat Detector 
General limit same as heat detector and detail 
29 
Column 1 
Column 2 
Generally 
Max. ceiling height 
applicable 
maximum ceiling 
for 10% of ceiling 
area 
height 
9.0 m 10.5 m 
7.5 m 10.5 m 
10.5 m 12.5 m 
10.5 m 12.5 m 
25 .0 m 28.0 
40 .0 m 43 .0 m 
(see Note I) (see Note I) 
10.5 111 12.5 111 
15.0 m 18.0111 
25 .0 m 28.0 m 
40.0 m 43.0 m 
(see Note 2) (see Note 2) 
12m (Mounting Height) 
17m (Mounting Height) 
25m (Mounting Height) 
As specified by the manufacturer 
7.5 111 10.5 m 
9.0111 10.5 m 
As specified by manufacturer 
7.5 m 10.5 m 
Class A I same as heat detector (BS EN 54-22) 9.0 m 10.5 m 
Other conditions (i.e. Protection of plant or cabling) As specified by manufacturer 
9 Vid eo-based Fire D etection 
Video Image Flame Detection (VIFD) 
As specified by manufacturer 
(See Note 3) 
Video Image Smoke Detection (VISD) 
As specified by manufacturer 
(See Note 3) 
10 Oth er fire detectors As specified by the manufacturer 
NOTE 1 The use of supplemental detection is recommended [see 22.5d)} unless the risk (i.e. 
probability x consequence) of stratification is minimal. 
NOTE2 The use of multi-level sampling is recommended [see 22. 7c)] unless the risk (i.e. 
probability x consequence) of stratification is minimal. 
Note 3 BS 5839-1:2017 Clause 21.2}): "When video fire detectors are used as the sole means 
of detection, the recommendations of the product manufacturer and/or suppliers in terms oj 
detection performance and application limitations should be followed and, wherever required, 
specialist knowledge should be sought." The application of video fire detectors shall be subject to 
assessment and acceptance of FSD. 
Note: This clause is to clarify the limits of ceiling height for detectors listed by different international standard. 
Clause 23.2.1 a) should be revised and read as 
"Indicating equipment, in conjunction with suitable manual control facilities, should be sited at 
the fire control centre or at the main entrance of the building for building without fire control 
centre. Where there are multiple entrances to a complex building, repeat control and / or 
indicating equipment might be required as stipulated in the approved building plans. 
NOTE 1 It is expected that the form of display, including the display al repeal CIE, will indicate the 
location of the first detector to operate without manual inten,ention." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 23.2.1 f) should be revised and read as 
"The area(s) in which any control and indicating equipment (s), power supply (or supplies) for 
the CIE and other essential control facilities should be protected in accordance with the 
requirements of FSCoP or the approved building plans." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
30 
The following new second paragraph of Clause 23.2.3 b) should be added 
"In case no fire control centre was provided in the building, the evacuation switch should be 
installed by the side of the control and indicating equipment. If one control and indicating 
equipment was in control of several buildings, the number of evacuation switch provided should 
be equivalent to the number of buildings connected." 
Note: This clause is to add requirements for premise without fire control centre according to FSSAG M inutes No. 43. 
Clause 24.2 b) should be revised and read as 
"The communications link between sub-panels should be monitored in accordance with the 
recommendation of 12.2.1 with wired networks." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 24.2 d) should be revised and read as 
"In networked systems in which the communications link forms a critical signal path and 
comprises one or more cables, the cable installation should conform to clause 26.2." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 24.2 f) should be revised and read as 
"In networked system in which the communications link form an ancillary circuit and comprises 
one or more cables, the cable installation should conform to 26.2 for EL V supply from an 
external power supply unit. 
Note: Ancillary Circuit refers to circuit from control and indicating equipment I sub panels to nonjire 
service installations, e.g. building management system etc." 
Note: This clause is to make it clear that the fire resistance cable is not required for ancillary circuit. 
·.: ~,,,. , ~T .-;r,,. •• .. - 1..,,. •• ,.,, ,_ :: .. ,. ,. ,. '•'<"t ,,1) ._ '-" u ,.-~·· ,-. •• ..-~. ~ ... - ' •• , r"'''' -. " ..... , I ~.- •r-,,-..._, • ,;'"' - ',r 
. 25 Power supplies , , · . · . . . , . _ . · , , ·, . 
• , • •... ., • .1-..r _..,,, ' .,_ .• r- • , • • • , , 
The title, first paragraph & NOTE 1 of Clause 25.2 should be revised and read as 
"Recommendations for primary power supplies 
The following recommendations are applicable to the primary power supply to the system. 
NOTE 1 This sipply needs to be regarded as an integral part of the fire detection and fire alarm system, 
regardless of whether the electrical installation within the building is provided by the organization 
31 
responsible for installation of the fire detection and fire alarm system." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
Clause 25.2 a) should be revised and read as 
"For reason of electrical safety, the primary power supply to all parts of the fire detection and 
fire alarm system should be supplied, via an isolating protective device (such as circuit-breaker), 
from the load ("dead") side of the main isolating device for the building. The design of the power 
supply should be such that even when the primary power supply to non-fire service installations 
in the premises is switched off, it will not cause failure of the power supply to fire service 
installations during the period of isolation." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
The NOTE 2 of Clause 25.2 c) should be revised and read as 
"NOTE 2 Safe isolation should comply with EECoP ." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
Clause 25.2 d) except NOTE 3 should be revised and read as 
"Subject to compliance with 25.2 a), 25.2 b), 25.2 c) and the EECoP, the number of isolating 
devices between the incoming power supply to the building and the fire detection and fire alarm 
system power unit should be kept to the minimum practicable." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
Clause 25.2 f) should be revised and read as 
"Every isolator and protective device that can isolate the supply to the fire detection and fire 
alarm system, other than the main isolator for the building, should be labelled either : 
i) "FIRE ALARM"";)( ~ ~ ¥&", in the case of a protective device that serves only the 
fire alarm circuit, but incorporates no switch; 
ii) "FIRE ALARM . DO NOT SWITCH OFF"";)( ~ ~ ¥&- t)J 1JJ t)] ~ ~ ))J", in 
the case of a switch (whether incorporating a protective device or not) that serves only 
the fire alarm circuit. 
iii) "WARNING . THIS SWITCH ALSO CONTROLS THE SUPPLY TO THE FIRE 
ALARM SYSTEM" "~ *· .lit ~ ~ [oJ 8~ ~ tU ;)( ~ ~ ¥& ~ &:Jc ~ ;~", 
in the case of any switch that disconnects the Primary Power supply to both the fire alarm 
system and to other circuits." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
Clause 25.2 g) should be revised and read as 
"All labels shall be engraved in white letter/ character with a red background. The height of all 
32 
the English and Chinese wordings shall not be less than 10 mm and 15 mm respectively .
11 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
The first sentence of Clause 25.2 i) should be revised and read as 
"The circuit supplying the fire detection and fire alarm system should not be protected by a 
residual current device unless this is necessary to conform to EECoP.
11 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
Clause 25.4 e) 1) should be revised and read as 
"For occupied premises, the capacity of the standby battery should be sufficient to maintain the 
system in operation for at least 24 h, after which sufficient capacity should remain to provide an 
"Evacuate" signal in all alarm zones for at least 30 min , unless the building is provided with an 
emergency generator (see 25.4 e)2).
11 
Note: This clause shall apply to occupied premises and to suit local practice. Moreover, this clause also use to clarify the standby 
generator. 
Clause 25.4 e) 1) NOTE 2 should be revised and read as 
"NOTE 2 For unoccupied premises, the capacity of the standby batte,y should be sufficient to maintain 
the system in operation for at least 24 h longer than the ma ximum period for which the premises are 
likely to be unoccupied or for 72 h in total, whichever is the less, after which sufficient capacity should 
remain to operate al/fire alarm devices for at least 30 min. If the building is likely to be unoccupied for 
mor e than the duration of the standby battery capacity at any time, power supply fault signals should 
also be automatically transmitted to an alarm receiving centre, for immediate notification of the user, 
o--.,,vner, occupier or the key-holder. 
11 
Note: This clause is to state the mandatory requirements on standby battery and transmission of battery fault signals for 
unoccupied premises. 
Clause 25.4 e) 2) except NOTE 4 should be revised and read as 
"In a building with an emergency generator that serves the fire detection and fire alarm system, 
the battery capacity should be sufficient to maintain the system in operation for at least six hours, 
after which sufficient capacity should remain to provide an "Evacuate" signal in all alarm zones 
for at least 30 min .
11 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice and clarify the standby generator. 
B8:l Clause 25.4 e) 3) and Clause 25.4 e) 4) are not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to suit local practice. 
33 
26 Cables, wiring and other interconnections 
Clause 26.2 b) should be revised and read as 
"Cables used for all pai1s of the critical signal paths ( see 3 .14 ), for the extra low voltage supply 
from an external power supply unit and for the final circuit providing primai·y power supply to 
the system or power supply to the fire alarm sounders, shall comply with FSD Circular Letters." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
The first paragraph of Clause 26.2 c) should be revised and read as 
"Cable systems used for all parts of the critical signal paths, and for the primary power supply 
to the system, should adequately resist the effects of fire. Fire resisting cables complying with 
FSD Circular Letters shall be used." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
The second paragraph of Clause 26.2 c) should be revised and read as 
"For fire detection and fire alarm systems for applications as listed below, cable systems 
comprising "enhanced" fire resisting cables, with appropriate methods of support and jointing 
should generally be used [see 26.2(g)]." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Sub-paragraph 1) of Clause 26.2 c) except NOTE 1 should be revised and read as 
"in unsprinklered buildings ( or parts of buildings other than areas exempted by the LPC Rules 
for Automatic Sprinkler Installations as shown on approved building plans) [ except those 
buildings (or parts of buildings) which are protected by automatic fixed installation using water 
or other than water], in which the fire strategy involves evacuation of occupants in four or more 
phases;" 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice, other types of automatic fixed installation could be provided in lieu of sprinkler 
protection. 
Sub-paragraph 2) of Clause 26.2 c) should be revised and read as 
"in unsprinklered buildings [ except those buildings ( or parts of buildings) which are protected 
by automatic fixed installation using water or other than water] of greater than 30 m in height; 
NOTE 2: Height of a building is taken as the height from the point of staircase discharge at ground 
storey of the building to the uppermost storey." 
Note: This is to suit local practice, other types of automatic fixed installation could be provided in lieu of sprinkler protection. 
As stipulated in FSCoP, low rise building does not exceed 30m. 
34 
Sub-paragraph 3) of Clause 26.2 c) except NOTE 3 should be revised and read as 
"in unsprinklered premises and sites [ except those buildings ( or parts of buildings) which are 
protected by automatic fixed installation using water or other than water] in which a fire in one 
area could affect cables of critical signal paths associated with areas remote from the fire, in 
which it is envisaged people will remain in occupation during the course of the fire [ see Figure 
17c)]. Examples might be large hospitals with central control equipment and progressive 
horizontal evacuation anangements, and certain large industrial sites;" 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice, other types of automatic fixed installation could be provided in lieu of sprinkler 
protection. 
Clause 26.2 c) NOTE 6 should be revised and read as 
"NOTE 6 For the purpose of 26.2 (c), a building should be regarded as sprinklered only if an automatic 
sprinkler installation conforming to BS EN 12845 or other international standards acceptable to FSD 
are provided." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice and to allow more flexibility by adopting other international standards in addition to 
the quoted BS standards. 
Clause 26.2 d) should be revised and read as 
"Standard fire resisting cable shall follow FSD Circular Letters." 
Note: This clause is to follow FSD Circular letters. 
Clause 26.2 e) should be revised and read as 
"Enhanced fire resisting cable shall follow FSD Circular Letters." 
Note: This clause is to follow FSD Circular letters. 
The last sentence of Clause 26.2 g) should be revised and read as 
"All joints, other than those within system components, should be enclosed within junction 
boxes, labelled with the words "FIRE ALARM"";}( ~ ~ ¥&" to avoid confusion with other 
services. All labels shall be engraved in white letter/character with a red background. The height 
of all the English and Chinese wordings shall not be less than 10 mm and 15 mm respectively." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
The first sentence of Clause 26.2 h) should be revised and read as 
"Except in particularly arduous conditions, mineral insulated copper sheathed cables conforming 
to BS EN 60702 and steel wire armoured cables conforming to BS 7846 or fire resisting cables 
comply ing with other international standards and acceptable to FSD may be used throughout all 
parts of the system without additional mechanical protection." 
Note: This clause is to allow more flexibility by adopting other international standards in addition to the quoted BS standards. 
Clause 26.2 i) should be revised and read as 
"Where conduit is used to satisfy the recommendations of 26.2h), the conduit should conf01m 
35 
to the relevant part of BS EN 61386. Any non-metallic trunking used in the system should 
conform to BS 4678-4. Subject to the assessment and acceptance of FSD , conduit and non­
metallic trunking complying with other international standards could also be used." 
Note: This clause is to allow more flexibility by adopting other international standards in addition to the quoted BS standards. 
::::!J Clause 26.2 o) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to follow EECoP. 
::::!J Clause 27.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: Radio-linked system is not applicable locally. This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
Clause 29.2 a) should be revised and read as 
"The system design should be such as to satisfy the relevant requirements of EECoP . In 
particular, CPCs should be adequately rated." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
The second paragraph of Clause 29.2 d) 1) should be revised and read as 
"All relevant power supplies for the fire detection and alarm system should conform to BS EN 
54-4 or other international standards acceptable to FSD and incorporate safety isolating 
transformers conforming to BS EN 61558 or other international standards acceptable to FSD. 
The battery charger shall either comply with relevant clauses of BS EN 54-4 or other 
international standards acceptable to FSD or be designed and rated so that : 
(i) the battery can be charged automatically; 
(ii) a battery discharged to its final voltage can be recharged to at least 80% of its rated 
capacity within 24 hours and to its rated capacity within another 48 hours; 
(iii) the charging characteristics are within the battery manufacturer's specifications for the 
range of battery temperatures reached with the ambient temperature (i.e. outside the 
standby power source enclosure) from -5°C to +40°C. 
(iv) except for currents associated with battery monitoring, the battery shall not discharge 
through the charger when the charging voltage is below the battery voltage 
(v) the power supply equipment is capable of recognizing and signaling the fault after loss 
of the battery charger, within 30 min of the occurrence, except when the charger is 
switched off or limited or interrupted when the power supply equipment is delivering a 
36 
cmTent greater than the rated maximum output voltage." 
Note: This clause is to allow more flexibility by adopting other international standards in addition to the quoted BS standards. 
-1~•h._>" •• ,,,.,..-.,_ •"•_...~.,~•V°' • -- ,tll" ••1 "'!'".l"""-.., ....... ,-..._--,•••~-...,• '-f '\':,'.~~ -,.-71'1"°"•'~,<.Tr-~-.-,~ •••••••••1~.•1 •-1:."l',""'-'\~~,1-•fl'--.r-.,..."'"' 
30 ': Responsibility for limitation of false alarms_ and unwanted 'firen:ili;irm signals .. :; .:.,, · .. ~- .. 
I"'::'. ' '•••• ,,,., 'r' • _... ,1 ~' ~ •• •••-•• ,-~• ~-...,, ,.,.._,.,••• ,,__,..._., •-~• ,''K "' _,.,_,_.,. .. .._,._,.,.qi_., 
II Clause 30.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
II Clause 31.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
II Clause 32.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
II Clause 34.2 b) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
II Clause 35.2.3 j) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
II Clause 35.2.4 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
II Clause 35.2.6 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
37 
:Il Clause 35.2.7.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
:Il Clause 35.2.7.3 b) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
:Il Clause 35.2.7.3(c) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
:Il Clause 35.2.7.3 f) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
:Il Clause 35.2.7.4 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
'.]J Clause 36.2 a) to c) are not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
:Il Clause 36.2 d) to j) are not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: These clauses shall be taken as reference only. Modified requirements in respective clauses and local requirements are 
also adopted. 
:Il Clause 36.2 k) ton) are not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 37.2 a) should be revised and read as 
"The entire system should conform to the requirements of EECoP . In general the 
recommendations of this standard supplement, but do not conflict with, these requirements. 
Where any such conflict is considered to exist, the recommendations of the EECoP should take 
precedence." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
38 
:Kl Clause 37.2 b) tom) are not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
The title of Clause 38 and the sub-title of Clause 38.1 & 38.2 should be revised and read as 
"38 Inspection and Testing of Wiring 
Clause 38.1 Commentary 
Clause 38.2 Recommendation " 
Note: This clause is to align with section numbers. 
:Kl Modified Clause 38.2 is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
:Kl Clause 39.2 c) 25) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: Radio-linked system is not applicable locally. This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
I@ Clause 39.2 d) is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to suit local practice. 
I@ Clause 40.2 is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to suit local practice. 
I@ Clause 41.2 is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to suit local practice. 
39 
Im Clause 42.2 is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to suit local practice. 
Im Clause 43.2 is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to suit local practice. 
The title of Clause 44.2 should be revised and read as 
"44.2 Re commendations for attention by the user" 
Note: Testing shall be done by the registered fire service installation contractor. 
Clause 44.2 a) should be revised and read as 
"A manual call point should be operated during normal working hours. It should be confirmed 
that the control equipment is capable of processing a fire alarm signal and providing an output 
to fire alarm sounders, and to ensure that the fire alarm signal is correctly received at any ARC 
to which fire alarm signals are transmitted. It is not necessary to confirm that all fire alarm 
sounder circuits operate correctly at the time of this test. 
NOTE 2 It is essential that any ARC is contacted immediately before, and immediately after, the test to 
ensure that unwanted alarms are avoided and that fire alarm signals are correctly received at the alarm 
receiving centre. 
NOTE 3 The user needs to take account of the manufacturer's recommendations, particularly when 
battery powered devices are being tested. 
11 
Note: Frequency of attention shall be determined by the user to suit the premises characteristics; and radio-linked fire alarm 
systems are not applicable locally. 
Clause 44.2 b) should be revised and read as 
"Instructions to occupants should be that they should report any instance of poor audibility of 
the fire alarm signal. In systems with staged alarms incorporating an "Alert" and an "Evacuate" 
signal, the two signals should be operated, where practicable, sequentially in the order they 
would occur at the time of a fire (i.e. "Alert" and then "Evacuate")." 
Note: Frequency of attention shall be determined by the user to suit the premises characteristics. 
40 
Clause 44.2 c) should be revised and read as 
"In premises in which some employees only work during hours other than that at which the fire 
detection and fire alarm system is normally tested, additional test(s) should be carried out to 
ensure familiarity of these employees with the fire alarm signal(s)." 
Note: Frequency of attention shall be determined by the user to suit the premises characteristics. 
Clause 44.2 d) should be revised and read as 
"A different manual call point should be used at the time of every test, so that all manual call 
points in the building are tested in rotation over a prolonged period. There is no maximum limit 
for this period. The result of the test and the identity of the manual call point used should be 
recorded in the system log book [see 40.2d)]." 
Note: Frequency of attention shall be determined by the user to suit the premises characteristics. 
Clause 44.2 e) should be revised and read as 
"The duration for which any fire alarm signal is given (other than solely at CIE) at the time of 
the test by the user should be at least 5 s, but should not normally exceed 60 s, so that, in the 
event of a fire at the time of the test, occupants are warned by the prolonged operation of the fire 
alarm devices." 
Note: Frequency of attention shall be determined by the user to suit the premises characteristics. 
Clause 44.2 f) should be revised and read as 
"Voice alarm systems should be tested in accordance with BS 5839-8." 
Note: Frequency of attention shall be determined by the user to suit the premises characteristics 
Clause 45 NOTE should be revised and read as 
"The safety requirements in EECoP shall be observed." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
The second paragraph of Clause 45.3 should be revised and read as 
"The fire detection and fire alann systems shall be ma intained in efficient working order at all 
times and shall be inspected by a registered fire service installation contractor at least once every 
12 months." 
Note: This clause is to suit local practice. 
41 
Clause 45.3 b) 2) should be revised and read as 
"any new exits that lead to an ultimate place of safety have been created without the provision 
of an adjacent manual call point1' 
Note: To align with the terminology in BD CoP. 
JO Clause 45.3 n) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: Radio-linked system is not applicable locally. This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
Clause 45.3 p) should be revised and read as 
"On completion of the work , any outstanding defects should be reported to the Director of Fire 
Services and the owner/occupier, the system log book [see 40.2d)] should be completed and a 
Certificate of Fire Service Installations and Equipment (Form FS251) should be issued." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 45.4 NOTE l should be revised and read as 
"The work described shall be carried out by a registered fire service installation contractor at 
least once during each 12-month period." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
The second para. after Clause 45.4 f) 4) should be revised and read as 
"Details of the techniques used should be recorded and in accordance with manufacturer's 
recommendations" 
Note: This clause is to meet the local situation. 
C[J Clause 45.4 m) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: Radio-linked system is not applicable locally. This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
Clause 45.4 o) Note 10 should be revised and read as 
"Testing of a single cause on automatic mode and a single cause on manual mode as applicable 
is deemed acceptable and satisfies the recommendations of 45.30)." 
Note: Both auto mode and manual mode where applicable should be tested. 
The second paragraph of Clause 45.4 s) should be revised and read as 
"On completion of the work , any outstanding defects should be reported to the Director of Fire 
Services and the owner/occupier, and a Certificate of Fire Service Installations and Equipment 
(Form FS251) should be issued." 
Note: This is to meet local requirements. 
42 
II Clause 46.2) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
Clause 46.3 a) except NOTE should be revised and read as 
"Where maintenance is carried out by a third party, such as registered fire service installation 
contractor, there should be an agreement for emergency call out to deal with any fault or damage 
that occurs to the system. 
The agreement should be such that, on a 24 h basis, the technician of the registered fire service 
installation contractor can normally attend the premises within eight hours of a call from the 
user." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
N8J Clause 46.3 a) NOTE is not to be applied locally 
Note: This is to suit local practice. 
Clause 46.4.2 a) NOTE 1 should be revised and read as 
"NOTE 1 This person may,for example, be the original designer, or may be a competent representative 
of the user or registered fire service installation contractor." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements. 
Clause 46.4.2 g) should be revised and read as 
"On commissioning of the work and completion of the tests, a Certificate of Fire Service 
Installations and Equipment (Form FS251) should be issued." 
Note: This clause is to meet local requirements . 
• ,.,,.,• .,1•-r.c-0::~.~-.-.- ~J"""l",, '1~·.· ..... ~1;1 • .'~,, ,, ""·,, ,r, .,,~_.-,, ';•' •.:".,'',,!'I ~:-•1~~_'~1·r-:r-,rp:~":.,•"";'T!''\'•'·r.•~ ~•:i:~'\1·~-.. -,. 
47 ·Premises management · : " . ·, : · , ,_ .•. , , --;. ·.· ,.:".°,.· ·. • . ·. · .. · 
•• '"' , • I-• ~ • M- • _.., ,.., '- ~-• '• • ~ _.. •---,c ~ 
II Clause 47.2) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
II Clause 47.3) is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This clause shall be taken as reference only. 
43 
Annex C (normative) Control and transmission equipment for tactile alarm devices provided 
for people who are Deaf and hard of hearing 
:I] Annex C is not mandatory and for reference only 
Note: This annex shall be taken as reference only. 
END 
44 
Appendix II 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm Systems 
I. Reference 
Project: ............................................................................................ FSD Ref.: ................................. . 
Address: .................................................................................................................................................. . 
Type of Building: 
*Domestic/Industrial/Institutional/Godown/Commercial/Office/Composite/Hotel/Hospital/Others ..... . 
. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . and with/without basement. 
*delete as appropriate 
II. Type of Equipment 
2.1 Alarm Annunciation Panel 
2.1.1 Manufacturer/Model No.: (Main panel) ....................................................................... . 
2.1.2 Type: 
2.2 Detectors 
2.2.1 Heat detector 
2.2.2 Smoke detector 
2.2.3 Flame detector 
(Sub-panel/repeater panel, if any) ...................................... . 
Conventional type 
Addressable type 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Manufacturer/Model No.: 
Type: Fixed temperature [ ] 
Rate-of-rise temperature [ ] 
Combination [ ] 
Linear cable [ ] 
Others .......................................................... . 
Manufacturer/Model No.: 
Type: Ionization [ ] 
Optical [ ] 
Beam [ ] 
Aspirating [ ] 
Others .......................................................... . 
Manufacturer/Model No.: 
Type: Infrared [ ] 
Ultra-violet [ ] 
Combination [ ] 
Others .......................................................... . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. I 
2.2.4 Others Manufacturer/Model No.: 
Type: 
2.3 Manual Call Point 
Manufacturer/Model No.: 
2.4 
Type: 
Fire Alann Sounder 
Manufacturer/Model No.: 
Type: 
2.5 Visual Fire Alarm Unit 
Manufacturer/Model No.: 
2.6 Smoke Detector with Sounder Base 
Manufacturer/Model No.: 
2. 7 Power Supplies 
Primary: Supply voltage/Phase/Hz: 
Secondary: Type: 
Rating: 
Fire Resisting Cables 
Manufacturer/Model No.: 
Break glass type [ ] 
Actuation type [ ] 
Others .......................................................... . 
Bell [ ] 
Yodalarm [ ] 
Horn [ ] 
Siren [ ] 
Electronic sounder [ ] 
Others .......................................................... . 
Secondary (rechargeable) Battery [ ] 
.................. Voltage ................ Amp-hour 
(Maintain at least .................. hrs System 
Operation) 
Connected with:-
Emergency generator [ ] 
Feed before main switch [ ] 
NIA [ ] 
Others .......................................................... . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. l 
III. Visual Inspection 
3.1 General 
3 .1.1 The initial building plans submission is 
received by FSD on or after 
I I ------
Yes No NIA Remarks 
(DD/MM/YYYY) [][][] ....................................... .. 
3 .1.2 All individual components of the fire alarm 
system including detectors and the control 
panel are mutually compatible. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.1.3 An as-fitted zoning schedule is provided on or 
adjacent to the alarm annunciation panel. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.1.4 A log book is provided adjacent to the alarm 
annunciation paneL [ ] [ ] [ ] • .. • ...... · .. · .. · ...................... .. 
3 .1 .5 The building plans submission for extensions 
and additions involving major alterations and 
additions to the building is in excess of 50% 
by volume and is received by FSD on or 
after / / -------
(DD/MM/YYYY) [ ] [ ] [ ] ....................................... .. 
3 .2 Detector 
3 .2.1 The detection zonings are properly labelled at 
the alarm annunciation panel. [ ] [ ] [ ] ....................................... .. 
3.2.2 Detectors are provided in areas as indicated 
on approved building plans. [ ] [ ] [ ] ....................................... .. 
Point type heat detector: .......................... nos. 
Linear heat detection cable: ..................... sets 
Point type smoke detector: ....................... nos. 
Beam smoke detector: .............................. sets 
Aspirating smoke detector: ....................... sets 
Flame detector: ........................................ nos. 
Others: ..................................................... nos. 
3.2.3 On the floor(s) where sleeping risk exists (e.g. 
hotel, hospital, hostel, etc.): 
(a) heat detector is used in kitchen and E/M 
plant room. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
(b) smoke detector is used in other areas 
except toilet, bathroom and staircase 
where sprinkler is provided. [ ] [ ] [ ] ....................................... .. 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No.I 
3.2.4 In guestrooms of hotels I guesthouses / 
bedrooms of student hostels:-
Sounder base is provided for smoke detector 
Yes No NIA Remarks 
except detector(s) inside concealed space. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.2.5 In residential flat with open kitchen:-
(a) Smoke detector(s) fitted with sounder 
base is provided inside the flat. [ ] [ ] [ ......................................... 
(b) Smoke detector(s) IS provided at the 
common area outside the flat. [ ] [ ] [ ] ......................................... 
3.2.6 Detectors are provided to basement according 
to the approved building plans. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3 .2. 7 Intrinsically safe or flameproof device is used 
within potentially hazardous areas. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.2.8 External remote indicating lamp is provided 
outside the doors of rooms where travel 
distance of the detectors inside the rooms 
exceeds 30 m of reach within a zone. 
3.2.9 Remote indicating lamp are provided for 
ceiling void or floor void detectors, if 
addressable text display in conjunction with 
layout plans are NOT provided adjacent to the 
[][][] ........................................ . 
control and indicating equipment. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3 .2.10 Detectors are provided for horizontal ceiling 
void ~ 800 mm high. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.2.11 Clearance below detector is ~ 500 mm. 
(Not applicable for ceiling voids, floor voids, 
and area having no horizontal dimension 
greater than I m.) [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3 .2.12 Point smoke detector is installed within 
ceiling height limit (General) of 10.5 m. 
(Note: ~ I 0% of ceiling area may exceed this 
limit and :'.S 12.5 m). [ ] [ ] [ ] •········································ 
3 .2.13 Heat detector is installed within ceiling height 
limit (General) of 9 m for Class Al to BS EN 
54-5 and 7 .5 m for other Classes. 
(Note: ~ 10% of ceiling area may exceed this 
limit and ~ 10.5 m). [ ] [ ] [ ] •········································ 
3 .2.14 Under flat ceiling, horizontal distance 
between any point and the nearest heat 
detector is ~ 5 .3 m. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No.I 
3 .2 .15 Under flat ceiling, horizontal distance 
between any point and the nearest smoke 
Yes No NIA Remarks 
detector is ~ 7 .5 m. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3 .2.16 In corridors ~ 2 m wide, heat detectors are 
sited at intervals of ~ 10.6 m and ~ 5.3 m 
from end wall. [ ] [ ] [ ] ········································· 
3 .2.17 In corridors ~ 2 m wide, smoke detectors are 
sited at intervals of~ 15 m and~ 7.5 m from 
end wall. [ ] [ ] [ ] ························· ···· ············ 
3 .2.18 In detector installation, ceiling obstructions > 
10% overall ceiling height are treated as wall. 
(Note: Within horizontal voids, obstructions> 
I 0% of the height between structural floor and 
structural ceiling are treated as wall regardless 
of the void location.) [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3 .2.19 In detector installation, partitions or storage 
racks reaching within 300 mm of the ceiling 
are treated as wall. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3 .2.20 Detectors are mounted ~ 1 m from any air 
supply point of a ventilation system. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.2.21 Horizontal Ceiling comprises: 
(a) a series of small cells (honeycomb 
ceiling), detector spacing is in accordance 
with Figure 11 & Table 1 ofBS 5839-1; [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
(b) a number of closely spaced structural 
beams, detector spacing is in accordance 
with Figure 11 & Table 2 of BS 5839-1. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.2.22 Detector(s) is provided under intermediate 
horizontal surfaces such as ducts, loading 
platforms and storage racks in excess of3 .5 m 
in width and whose undersurface is in excess 
of 800 mm above the floor ( other than when 
the side of the duct or structure is in excess of 
800 mm from the wall or other ducts or 
structure). [][](] ........................................ . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. l 
Yes No NIA 
3 .2.23 Other than point type smoke and heat 
detectors, the following detectors are installed 
within ceiling height limit as specified 111 
Technical Guidance or according to 
manufacturer's standard and specification. 
(a) Carbon monoxide detectors 
(b) Optical beam detectors 
( c) Aspirating smoke detectors 
( d) Flame detectors 
( e) Conventional type linear heat detectors 
(f) Optical fibres linear heat detectors 
(g) Video fire detectors 
(h) Others, please specify: ................. . 
3.3 Fire Alarm Sounder 
3 .3 .1 The fire alarm sounder is provided in areas as 
indicated on FSI layout plans. 
(a) Fire alarm sounder 
.......................................... Nos. 
(b) External fire alarm sounder 
.......................................... Nos. 
3 .3 .2 External fire alarm sounders is provided at 
following locations:-
[ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ 
(a) "Fire Services Access Point"; or [ ] [ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
(b) Building entrance if "Fire Services 
Access Point" is not provided; and [ ] 
( c) Control and indicating equipment. [ ] 
The fire alarm sounder is clearly marked with 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
Remarks 
the words "FIRE ALARM"(;}(~). [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3 .3 .3 One fire alarm sounder is provided within 
2 m of each hose reel point. 
3.3.4 Each system incorporates at least two fire 
alarm sounders. At least one sounder 1s 
provided in each fire compartment. 
(Note: Meaning of fire compartment shall be 
as defined Code of Practice for Fire Safety in 
Buildings) 
[][][] ........................................ . 
[][][] ........................................ . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. I 
3 .4 Manual Call Point {MCP) 
3.4.1 The MCP is provided in areas as indicated on 
FSI layout plans. 
MCP: ........................................ nos. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.4.2 The zoning is at least one zone per floor if 
the total floor area of the building> 300 m 2 
calculated on those portions of the premises 
installed with fire detectors. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.4.3 One MCP is located: 
(a) at hose reel point; [ ] [ ] 
(b) adjacent to & within 2m from storey exit 
( or its entrance lobby if it leads only to the 
storey exit); [ ] [ ] 
( c) adjacent to staircase final exit to open air 
on G/F or place of ultimate safety. [ ] [ ] 
3.4.4 For exit opening ~ 12 m in width, two MCPs 
are provided, one at each end of the openings 
before exit ( or before the entrance lobby in 
lieu of such lobby leads only to the exit)) and 
within a distance of not more than 2 m from 
[ ] ........................................ . 
[ ] 
[ ] 
each end of the opening. [ ] [ ] [ ] • • • .. • • • • • • •· .. •· • • • • • • • • • • •· • • • .. • • • • .. • 
3.4.5 MCP is fixed at a height of0.9 to 1.2 m above 
finished floor level. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3 .4.6 MCPs are surface mounted or semi-recessed 
mounted as per manufacturer's design. 
3.5 Visual Fire Alarm {VF A) 
3.5.1 The VFA is provided in areas as indicated on 
FSI layout plans and Fire Service Notes in the 
[][][] ....................................... .. 
approved general building plan. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3 .5 .2 VF A alarm signal is in form of flashing red 
light. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.5.3 Flashing light of VFA is readily visible from 
all normally accessible locations, throughout 
the area in which they are provided, under 
normal ambient lighting levels. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.5.4 One VFA is provided for each compartment 
and the distance between two VF A points ~ 
60 m. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.5.5 The mounting height of VF A is not less than 
2.1 m. [ ] [ ] [ ] 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. I 
3 .5 .6 Design of VF A system conforms to Code of 
Practice, current Design Manual: Barrier Free 
Access and 
(a) NFPA 72 or 
(b) BS 5839-1 
3.5.7 One VFA point is located near every hose 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
reel. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........ · .............. · · ...... · .... ·· .. · 
3.5.8 The power supply of the VF A system is from: 
(a) D.C. supply source with back-up supply 
by battery; or 
(b) A.C. supply source with secondary supply 
from emergency generator; or 
( c) A.C. supply source with secondary supply 
feed before main switch. 
3.6 Cables, Wiring and Other Interconnections 
3.6.1 Cables used for: 
(a) Critical signal path (panel to all field 
devices); 
(b) extra low voltage (EL V) supply from 
external power supply unit (charger/ 
battery) to the system; 
( c) final circuit providing primary power 
supply to the system; and 
( d) primary power supply to the system 
(primary power supply to panel / 
charger). 
shall be either one or in combination of the 
following (1), (2) or (3): 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. I 
········································· 
......................................... 
......................................... 
3.6.1 
(Cont' 
d) 
(1) For standard cables or cable systems as 
defined in BS 5839-1, they shall comply 
with: 
(i) BS 5839-1; or 
(ii) BS EN 50200 (PH30) and Annex E 
ofBS EN 50200 (a duration of 
survival time of 30 minutes); or 
(iii) BS EN 60702; or 
(iv) BS 7629-1 (Cat. Standard 30); or 
(v) BS 7846 (Cat.F2 for cables of 
overall diameter not exceeding 
20mm or Cat. F30 for cables of 
[][][] ........................................ . 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
overall diameter exceeding 20mm); [ ] [ ] [ 
or 
(vi) BS 6387 Cat. CWZ; or 
(vii) Fire resisting cables to other 
international standard accepted to 
the Director of Fire Services. 
(2) For enhanced cables or cable systems as 
defined in BS 5839-1, they shall comply 
with: 
(i) BS EN 50200 (PH120) and 8434-2 
(a duration of survival time of 120 
minutes); or 
(ii) BS EN 60702; or 
(iii) BS 7629-1 (Cat. Enhanced 120); or 
(iv) BS 7846 (Cat.F2 for cables of 
overall diameter not exceeding 
20mm or Cat. F120 for cables of 
overall diameter exceeding 20mm); 
or 
(v) BS 6387 Cat. CWZ; or 
(vi) Fire resisting cables to other 
international standard accepted to 
the Director of Fire Services. 
(3) Cables as per Remarks Section in 
Appendix I of FSD Circular Letter No. 
2/2017 being exempted from the 
requirement. 
3.6.2 Conductors are having a cross-sectional area 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[][][] ........................................ . 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[][][] ........................................ . 
[][][] ........................................ . 
of ~ 1 mm 2• [ ] [ ] [ ] ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
3.6.3 Cables and conductors are separated from 
cables of other services. 
3.6.4 Cables carrying power in excess of extra low 
voltage (EL V) are segregated from extra low 
[][][] ........................................ . 
voltage (EL V) fire alarm circuits. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. I 
3. 7 Control and Indicating Equipment 
3. 7. I The alann annunciation panel is located near 
the main entrance without fire control centre 
or in fire control centre. 
3.7.2 Manual call point zone indications are given 
at the control and indicating panel even if 
[][][] ....................................... .. 
addressable text information is available. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.7.3 Manual call point zone and detection zone 
indications are given at the control and 
indicating panel even if addressable text 
information is available, by one or a 
combination of the following: 
(a) LED indicators 
(b) Visual display units 
( c) Other suitable means (Please 
specify .................................... ) 
3.7.4 The wirings are compatible with the type of 
control panel as recommended by the panel 
manufacturer. 
(2-wire system/4-wire system/twisted pair/ 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
................................................................... ) [ ] [ ] [ ] ....................................... .. 
3. 7 .5 Operation of alarm silent facility should: 
(a) require manual operation; 
(b) not cancel any visual signal; 
( c) if a new zone goes into alarm, sound any 
fire alarm sounders belonging to that 
alarm zone; 
( d) not prevent correct operation of any 
control; and 
( e) not prevent transmission of alarm to 
alarm receiving centre. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-l:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. l 
3.8 Power Supplies 
3 .8.1 Connections to the primary power supply is 
via an independent isolating protective 
device. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.8.2 Every isolator, switch and protective device is 
situated in a position inaccessible to 
unauthorized persons or protected against 
unauthorized operation and is properly 
labelled as appropriate: 
(a) "FIRE ALARM"()(~~¥&); or 
(b) "FIRE ALARM. DO NOT SWITCH 
OFF" (;)(~~¥& , i:J]0]i:J]ffi~5))R); or 
(c) "WARNING. THIS SWITCH ALSO 
CONTROLS THE SUPPLY TO THE 
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM" (~~ , Ilt~ 
~[o]B~~tU;)(~~¥&:%~5t~5J)R). 
All labels are engraved in white 
letter/character with a red background. The 
words "FIRE ALARM" (;)( ~) with height of 
English and Chinese wordings ~ 10 mm and 
15 mm respectively. 
3 .8.3 Circuit supplying fire detection and fire alarm 
system is not protected by a residual current 
device. 
[][][] ........................................ . 
(unless necessary to comply with EECoP) [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.8.4 The primary power supply and the standby 
battery are each capable of supplying the 
maximum alarm load of the system. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
3.8.5 Battery power supply is provided. 
(Input Voltage: 
.................... A.C./D.C. 
Output Voltage: 
.................... A.C./D.C. 
Capacity: ..................... Ah) 
3.8.6 Secondary (rechargeable) battery supplies 
should: 
(a) be with an automatic charger; 
(b) have a life of at least 4 years; 
( c) have date of installation labelled; 
( d) have battery charger capable of 
recharging the battery from fully 
discharged to fully charged within 24 
hours; and 
( e) have capacity sufficient to maintain the 
[][][] ........................................ . 
system operation. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. I 
IV. Testing 
4.1 Detectors 
4.1.1 Upon actuation of any detector in the 
building, the correct audio/visual warning 
device is initiated. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
4.1.2 
4.1.3 
The sensitivity of all heat/smoke/flame 
detectors are correctly set in full accordance 
with the manufacturer's recommendations. [ ] [ ] 
The zoning of detectors is correct. [ ] 
[ ] 
[ ] 
4.2 Manual Call Point, Alarm Sounder and Visual Fire Alarm Installations 
4.2.1 Upon actuation of the detector or manual call 
point, alarm is given by external fire alarm 
sounder installed at the following locations:-
(a) "Fire Services Access Point"; or [ [ ] [ ] 
(b) Building entrance if "Fire Services 
Access Point" is not provided; and [ ] [ ] [ ] 
( c) Control and indicating equipment. [ ] [ ] [ ] 
4.2.2 Background noise (N) likely to persist for a 
period longer than 30 seconds. [ ] [ ] [ ] 
4.2.3 For domestic building, the minimum sound 
level of alarm sounders is measured at 3 m 
from the inside of the main entrance door with 
all doors shut off & all windows open at all 
flats and the result is 
.......... dB(A), which is: 
(a) 2': 60 dB(A); and 
(b) 2 5 dB(A) + ........... (background 
noise, N) = ......... dB(A). [ ] [ ] [ ] 
4.2.4 For non-domestic building, the mm1mum 
sound level of alarm sounders is measured at 
3 m from the inside of the main entrance door 
with all doors shut off & all windows open at 
all flats and the result is ............. dB(A), 
which is: 
(a) 2 65 dB(A); and 
(b) 2': 5 dB(A) + ........... (background 
noise, N) = ......... dB(A). 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. l 
········································· 
········································· ......................................... 
At ......................... dB(A) 
. ........................................ 
......................................... 
4.2.5 The sound level measured right below the 
sounder base( s) of smoke detector and 1 m 
above floor level with all the 
guestroom/bedroom windows fully opened 
and doors closed is ............. dB(A), which 
1s: 
(a) ~ 65 dB(A); and 
(b) ~ 5 dB(A) + ........... (background 
noise, N) = ......... dB(A). [ ] [ ] [ ] 
4.2.6 The zoning of manual call points is correct. [ [ ] [ ] 
4.2.7 Upon actuation ofany manual call point in the 
building, the fixed fire pump serving the 
corresponding block comes into operation 
regardless of the zoning of the manual call 
point. [ ] [ ] [ ] 
4.2.8 Upon actuation of any manual call point in the 
building, the correct audio/visual warning 
device for the fire alarm and detection system 
is initiated. [ ] [ ] [ ] 
4.2.9 The delay between operation of a manual call 
point and the giving of an "evacuate" signal 
in the alarm zone does not exceed 3 seconds. [ ] [ ] [ ] 
4.2.10 All VF A flashing light is visible from all 
normally accessible locations, throughout the 
required protected areas when the fire alarm 
system is actuated. [ ] [ ] [ ] 
4.2.11 VF A signal is clearly distinguishable from 
any other non-fire service visual signals. [ ] [ ] [ ] 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. I 
. ........................................ 
......................................... 
......................................... 
......................................... 
......................................... 
········································· 
......................................... 
4.3 Power Supplies 
4.3 .1 The capacity of standby batteries: -
(a) For occupied premises, the capacity of 
standby battery is sufficient to maintain 
the system in operation for at least 24 
hours, plus at least 30 mm. for an 
"evacuate" signal in all alarm zones; [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
(b) For unoccupied premises, the standby 
battery is sufficient to maintain the 
system in operation for at least 24 hours 
longer than maximum period likely to be 
unoccupied or for 72 hours 111 total, 
whichever 1s the less, after which to 
operate all fire alarm devices for at least 
30 min; or [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
( c) In building with emergency generator that 
serves fire alarm system, battery capacity 
is sufficient to maintain the system in 
operation for at least six hours, plus at 
least 30 min. for an "evacuate" signal in 
all alarm zones. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
4.3.2 The primary or secondary power supplies are 
indicated by a green indicator at mam 
indicating equipment. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
4.3.3 Each of the primary and the secondary power 
supply is capable of supplying the largest load 
under normal, fire and fault conditions. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
4.4 Control and Indicating Equipment 
4.4. l Alarm is given from the external fire alarm 
sounder at the following locations: 
(a) "Fire Services Access Point"; or 
(b) Building entrance if "Fire Services 
Access Point" is not provided; and 
( c) Control and indicating equipment. 
4.4.2 Direct telephone link (DTL) to service 
provider's Computerized Fire Alarm 
Transmission System (CF ATS) is connected. 
(Please state DTL no.: 
[ ] ] [ ] ........................................ . 
[ ] [ ] [ ] 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
...................................................... ) [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. I 
4.4.3 Other panel function works properly: 
(a) Alarm silence/reset. 
(b) Battery supply on. (if applicable) 
(c) Power on/failure indicator. 
(d) Direct link failure indicator. (if 
applicable) 
(e) Zone alarm/fault indicator. 
4.4.4 Detector solely using as automatic actuating 
devices for fire service systems such as fire 
shutter, V / AC control, fixed installations 
other than water, fixed installation using 
water, pressurization system, and smoke 
control systems are linked to the 
Computerized Fire Alarm Transmission 
System (CFATS) via DTL. 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ......................................... 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ......................................... 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ......................................... 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ......................................... 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ········································· 
(Remark: This linking is NOT mandatory.) [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
4.4.5 System integrity 
(a) Fire detection circuit 
A fault on one circuit should not affect any 
other circuit; a single short circuit or open 
circuit fault should neither disable 
protection with aggregate floor area of 
more than 2,000 m 2 nor more than one 
floor of a building; and two simultaneous 
faults on one circuit should not disable 
protection within a gross floor area of 
more than 10,000 m 2. [ ] [ ] [ ] ••••••••••••••.•••••.••.••..••••••••.•.•• 
(b) Linear heat detectors 
(i) Protection area :'.S 2,000 m 2, a single 
short circuit or open circuit fault on 
the linear heat detection cable should 
not disable protection. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
(ii) Protection area> 2,000 m 2, duplicate 
linear heat detection cables with its 
associated control panels, should be 
provided. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
(c) Fire alarm sounders and/or visual alarm 
device where applicable:-
A single open circuit or short circuit fault 
on any circuit on any floor that serves fire 
alarm sounders and/or visual alarm device 
where applicable should not disable 
operation of fire alarm sounders and visual 
alarm device where applicable on the 
adjacent floor below and the adjacent floor 
above. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. I 
V. Documentation 
5.1 FSD approval/listing by product certification 
bodies are provided for the following 
equipment: 
(a) Fire Alarm Control Panel; 
(b) Heat Detector; 
(c) Smoke Detector; 
(d) Beam Detector; 
(e) Smoke Detector with Integration 
Devices; 
(f) Flame Detector; 
(g) Intrinsically Safe / Explosion Proof 
Detector; 
(h) Alann/Sounder Integrated with Strobe 
Light; 
(i) Manual Call Point; 
(j) Alarm bell; 
5.2 FSD approval/listing by product certification 
bodies are provided for the fire resisting 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ········································· 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ......................................... 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ········································· 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ········································· 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ········································· 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ......................................... 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ......................................... 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ......................................... 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ......................................... 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ......................................... 
cables. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
5.3 Sound level measurement (including 
background noise) report for alarm sounders 
is provided. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
5.4 Calculation showing the required battery 
capacity is provided. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
5.5 Letter certifying the completion of the DTL 
to the FSCC / authorized service provider is 
provided. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
5.6 Confirmation or certification from panel 
manufacturer on the compatibility between 
the fire alarm control panel(s) and detectors 
is provided. [ ] [ ] [ ] ........................................ . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No. I 
Test conducted by: 
.............................................................. (Signature) 
Name ofFSI Contractor's Representative (in block letters) 
Company Chop 
......................................................... (RC I ) 
Name ofFSI Contractor (FSI Contractor Registration Number) 
Date ............................................... . 
Testing and Commissioning Checklist for Fire Detection and Fire Alarm System 
BS 5839-1:2017 Incorporating Corrigendum No.I 