--- PAGE 1 ---
A adit FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
LICENSING AND CERTIFICATION COMMAND
Fae AR Be BEL 8 S/F, Fire Services Headquarters Building
BASTARD OB RAD EEG 1 No. 1 Hong Chong Road, Tsim Sha Tsui East
TDG ba SBA 5S Kowloon, Hong Kong

ARES OUR REF.: (10) in FP(LC) 314/07 Pt.10
2€ REE YOUR REF:

Sc FAX: (852) 2733 2197
iF Hh (4 E-MAIL: Icpolic2@hkfsd.gov.hk
ce #4 TEL. NO.: (852) 2733 7619

30 June 2022
To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters

Dear Sir/Madam,

FSD Circular Letter No. 1/2022

Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems — Review and Annual Inspection of Enclosure Integrity

This Circular Letter serves to announce the requirement of review and annual inspection of
enclosure integrity for premises being protected by Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems (“the

system”) complying to the NFPA Standard 2001: 2018 edition or edition thereafter (“the Standard”).

NFPA Standard 2001 is one of the standards accepted by the Fire Services Department (FSD)
which is widely adopted by the trade for the application of clean agent fire extinguishing systems in
Hong Kong. According to the Standard, it is required for approval of installations that “quantitative
results shall be obtained and recorded to indicate that the specified agent concentration for the
specified duration of protection...”. In view that such provision is to ascertain the enclosure integrity
of maintaining the clean agent concentration during system’s operation, the applicability and
practicability of the requirement for the local adoption had been discussed in the Fire Safety Standards
Advisory Group (FSSAG). After comprehensive discussions and extensive consultations with the
trade and respective stakeholders, the FSSAG had agreed that a test report justifying the compliance

of the enclosure integrity with the Standard shall be submitted in the following circumstances: -
(a) Installation in New Buildings

The test report(s) with the signature of a Registered Fire Service Installation Contractor
(RFSIC), who is responsible for the installation works, shall be submitted along with the
documents for application of acceptance inspection in new buildings as stipulated in FSD

Circular Letter No. 1/2020.

/2
Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter

Au te Be AR i BF 5A 5] uh fe SR A HA

--- PAGE 2 ---
-2-
(b) Installation of New System in Occupied Premises
The test report(s) with signature of an RFSIC, who is responsible for the installation
works, shall be submitted together with a Certificate of Fire Service Installations and
Equipment (FS 251), in addition to Form FSI/314A along with required plans and
documents pursuant to FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2021.

According to the Standard, any changes in the premises’ barrier integrity or enclosure
dimensions could result in the inability of the enclosure to maintain the clean agent concentration
during operation. Hence, it is the responsibility of RFSICs to verify that no alteration and addition
works, which may affect the room integrity, has been conducted in the enclosure when they are
appointed to carry out an annual inspection for the system pursuant to regulation 8(1) of the Fire Service
(Installations and Equipment) Regulations, Chapter 95B of the Laws of Hong Kong. In this connection,
a declaration form attached in Annex I is devised to facilitate the RFSIC concerned to ascertain the
system conforming with the Standard. A copy of the completed declaration form should be forwarded

to FSD along with the relevant copy of FS 251.

The above arrangement will take effect from 1 August 2022 for a trial period of two years,

after which a review will be conducted pertinent to the local situation.

For enquiries regarding new system installations as well as inspection, maintenance or repair
matters of the system, please contact our Fire Service Installations Division at 3961 5217 or Fire

Service Installations Task Force at 2733 1567 respectively during office hours.

Yours faithfull

(WONG Ka-wifg)
for Director of Fire/Services

Encl.

Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter

AL 4S Be AR fs BS A 5 Uh fe SE A A

--- PAGE 3 ---
Annex I
Declaration Form

Room Integrity for Premises Protected
by Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing System

Building Address:

Location of protected
premises:

System: *NOVEC1230 / FM200 / Others (Please specify)

To:

(Registered Fire Service Installation Contractor)

We, the * Owner / Occupier of the protected premises, hereby declare that within the period
from to (dd/mm/yyyy), there had been NO alteration and

addition works which may affect the room integrity.

Declaration Party Acknowledgement Party
* Owner / Occupier of the premises Registered Fire Service Installation Contractor

FS 251 Serial No. :

(Chop & Signature) (Authorized Signature)
Name : Name:
Company Name : FSIC RC No. : (RC / )
Name of FSIC:
Tel. : Tel. :
Date : Date :

(* delete as appropriate)

Notes:

1. The room integrity test is NOT related to the functionality of the Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing System.

2. Owner/occupier of the protected premises bears the responsibility to rectify any defects related to the room integrity.

3. This Form shall be submitted together with the Certificate of Fire Service Installations and Equipment (FS251) of
the system to FSD.

4. Factors affecting the room integrity include alternation to the enclosures (i.e. walls, ceiling slabs and floor slabs) of
the protected premises, and/ or adding / removing cables / services running through the enclosures.
