 
 
本處檔號 Our Ref.   :  (31) in FP(FS) 314/07 
圖文傳真  Fax      :  (852) 2312 0376 
電話      Tel. No.    :  (852) 2170 9595 
 
1 February 2001 
 
 
To : Authorized Persons The H.K. & China Gas Co. 
 Registered F.S.I. Contractors The Lift & Escalator Contractors  
 Registered Ventilation Contractors     Association  
 Registered Lift & Escalator Contractors Hong Kong Telecom Company Ltd. 
 Electrical & Mechanical Consultants Hong Kong Construction Association  
 Fire Insurance Association of H.K. Director of Architectural Services 
 The Association of Registered F.S.I. Director of Buildings 
     Contractors of Hong Kong  Director of Housing 
 Structural Division, H.K.I.E. Petroleum Companies 
 Power Companies  
 
 
Dear Sir, 
 
FSD Circular Letter No. 1/2001  
Application of Ceiling, Flush, Recessed and Concealed Sprinklers
 
 
 Clause 26.5.1.1 of the LPC Rules on Automatic Sprinklers 
states: “sprinklers located in the hottest gas layer, e.g. 75 mm to 100 mm below 
a flat ceiling, give faster response.  It is for this reason that  ceiling or flush, 
recessed and concealed sprinklers are not suitable for life safety applications .”  
The ambiguity contained in this statement has perturbed the local fire 
engineering professionals who then requested clarification and guidance from 
the Fire Services Department. 
 
 The Fire Services has embarked on a comprehensive study that 
includes practical tests at the laboratories of the Hong Kong Polytechnic 
University.  The Department has also obtained views from international 
institutions – NFPA, UL,  CSIRO, Warrington, Branz, SP Sweden and Centre 
National de Prevention et de Protection, France.   
 
 
Fire Services Department 
Fire Safety Command 
5/F., ONE Mong Kok Road Commercial Centre, 
1 Mong Kok Road, Kowloon, Hong Kong 
 
 
 
消防處  
消防安全總區  
香港九龍旺角道一號 
   旺角道壹號商業中心五字樓 
 
 
2
 
 
 The study has been completed.  The findings were reported to 
the FSD/Authorized Persons Liaison Meeting and the FSD/Association of 
Registered FSI Contract ors Liaison Meeting on 8 December 2000.  At the 
meeting, Fire Services Department suggested and parties concerned agreed that 
with effect from the date of this Circular Letter: - 
 
(a) Ceiling and flush sprinklers
 of a type approved for use by 
the Fire Serv ices Department  and installed in accordance 
with the manufacturer ’s instructions shall be generally 
accepted in light and ordinary hazards up to (and 
including) OH Group III, and 
  
(b) Recessed and concealed sprinklers with fast response heat 
sensing ele ment of a type approved for use by the Fire 
Services Department  and installed in accordance with the 
manufacturer’s instructions shall be generally accepted in 
light and ordinary hazards up to (and including) OH 
Group III. 
 
 During the discussion, the pro fessionals also raised the issue of 
enhanced requirement for curtain walled buildings, i.e., the sprinkler system 
installed in these buildings should be one grade in excess of that normally 
required for the accepted risk category.  It has been decided that  if such 
buildings are constructed to the standard stipulated in the Code of Practice for 
Fire Resisting Construction (FRC) Code 1996 the “one grade in excess ” 
requirement will be dispensed with. 
 
 In due course, FSD will make amendments to paragraphs 4.18  
and 4.19 of the Code of Practice on Minimum Fire Service Installations and 
Equipment.  Authorized Persons are advised to confirm the FRC on the 
building plans so that Fire Officers responsible for plan processing could 
decide on the appropriate grade of sprinkler system. 
 
  Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
 
  (LEE Chee-chung) 
  for Director of Fire Services  