
----- page 1/4 -----
Lands Administration Office Lands Department
Practice Note
Issue No. 4/2000(B)
Recreational Facilities_in Residential Developments
Modern government   leases governing   residential   developments or the residential portion of composite developments usually contain a condition permitting recreational facilities and facilities ancillary thereto to be provided within the lot for the common use by the residents and their bona fide visitors_ Such facilities, usually called clubhouses, if provided indoors at appropriate scale and composition; may be allowed to be exempted from calculation of gross floor area (GFA): The purpose of this practice note is to provide guidelines as to the types of facilities that will be permitted and exempted from GFA calculation for the purpose of lease administration, though the   Director of Lands  reserves her  right   and absolute  discretion to act differently in individual cases_
2. The appendix attached to this practice note shows the active and passive recreational facilities that are commonly allowed and the types of ancillary facilities that may be accepted. It is based on the types of recreational facilities for residential developments which are commonly accepted for exclusion from GFA calculation by the Building Authority: With immediate effect the requirement hitherto regarding the ratios of the areas of activelpassivelancillary facilities (i.e. no less than 50% of the usable area of the clubhouse should be devoted to active facilities) no longer applies The Building Authority $ ruling on these aspects would usually be followed
3 . The GFA of the clubhouse including all voids, plant rooms (including filtration plant room for swimming pool), covered walkways, covered courts, etc serving solely the clubhouse should not exceed the limitation in sliding scale as indicated in Table 1 below for consideration of GFA exemption
----- page 2/4 -----
Table 1 Sliding scale of GFA exemption for clubhouse
Total Domestic GFA
Max. % of Total Domestic GFA Note /Max  Area for GFA Exemption (whichever is greater) 5%/ 4.5% 1,250 m? 4.0% 2,250 m 3.5% 3,000 m? 3.0% 3,500 m? 2.5% / 3,750 m?
Up to 25,000 m? 25,000 m? to 50,000 m 50,000 m? to 75,000 m? 75,000 m? to 100,000 m 100,000 m? to 125,000 m" 125,000 m
Note
The above ~sliding scale is  based on  that set by the Building Authority: For the purpose of lease administration, the maximum % of total domestic GFA applies to the total domestic GFA for the lot in question
Exemption  of recreational   facilities from GFA calculation if granted is based on the fact and on condition that such facilities, being part of the common areas, are to be enjoyed by all the residents on the lot: Lots intended to be developed into a single residence will not be entitled to such exemption
5 For government leases which do not contain condition   permitting provision of recreational facilities, a modification is required before any such facilities may be exempted from counting for GFA.
6 It must be noted that nothing in this practice note and its appendix shall in any way fetter Or affect the rights of the Government; the Director of Lands and their officers under the relevant government lease or their rights as lessor/landlord, who are exercising such rights in the capacity of a lessor/landlord and who hereby reserve all such rights, and that nothing in this practice note and its appendix including any words and expressions used shall in any way affect the interpretation of the terms and conditions of the relevant government lease
LAO Practice Note No. 4/2000(A) is hereby superseded.
kmdttev (Ms Bernadette LINN) Director of Lands 24 May 2013
----- page 3/4 -----
Appendix
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES FOR RESIDENTS AND THEIR BONA FIDE VISITORS
Ancillary Facilities which may be accepted, depending on the size and relationship with main functions
Facilities which are commonly accepted
Active facilities
Clubhouse management Clubhouse reception counter
officel
Swimming pool Multi-purpose ball court/Squash court/Basketball court/ Football court/Tennis court/Badminton court
Clubhouse staff room
Snack barlmini-bar/pantry (total area not exceeding 10 m2)
Children play area
First-aid room
Games room
Kitchen (not exceeding 15 m?) (for sites without any commercial floor space)
Indoor golf  room
Changing room/shower facilities
Table-tennis room
Fitness room
Lavatoriesltoilets
Gymnasium
Store rooms
Weight training/Aerobic/Exercise room
Bowling alley
Skating rink
Volleyball court
Rock climbing room
Dance room/yoga room
Passive facilities Sitting area/lounge
Billiard room
Sauna/Jacuzzi/Spa facilities
Reading room/Study room/Library
Function room
----- page 4/4 -----
Computer/video game room
Music room/Karaoke room