Lands Administration OfficeLands DepartmentPractice NoteIssue No. 3/2002Enquiries from Prospective Purchasers etc.relating to lots being offered for sale by public auction or tender including sites on the application list	This Practice Note is issued to clarify the role of Government and in particular, the Lands Department, in handling enquiries relating to Conditions of Sale in respect of lots being offered for disposal by public auction or tender, including sites on the Application List published by Lands Department from time to time.2.		Whilst all enquiries should be addressed to the Lands Department, and direct contact with other government Departments should be avoided, prospective purchasers are asked to note that only questions of a general nature will be considered. Independent advice should be sought from Authorised Persons, legal or other professional advisers, on the interpretation of any provisions in the Conditions of Sale, the application of the Buildings Ordinance, Building (Planning) Regulations and other relevant legislation or other specific matters relating to the site being offered for sale.3.		Subject to the above restrictions, all enquiries should be addressed to the Chief Estate Surveyor/Headquarters of the Lands Department, Tel No. 2231 3802.4.		During the period after publication of the Application List or the Conditions of Sale, but prior to the date of auction or closing of the tender, if any fundamental ambiguity in the Conditions of Sale is identified, Lands Department will publicise any necessary amendments in the Government Gazette and/or in selected newspapers, or by circulation to interested parties whose contact details are available on the mailing list held by the department, depending on the time available prior to the sale, but in any event, before the date of auction/closing date of tender.  5.		In the case of sites being offered for sale by auction, any amendment will also be distributed in writing to persons registering for the auction and obtaining a Bidding Paddle.  It will also be announced and exhibited in writing in the auction room before the start of the auction.( R. D. Pope )Director of Lands22 February 2002LD 2/1020/86 (VII)