
----- page 1/1 -----
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 4/2005 
 
 
Procedure on Processing of Waiver for Ground Floor of Industrial Building 
 
 
Commercial use in industrial building will be in breach of lease conditions if the 
user clause of the lease is restricted to industrial purpose and will be liable to lease 
enforcement action by the Lands Department.  Under such circumstances the owner of 
the premises has an obligation to apply to the Lands Department for a change of use.  
PN 2/2003 covers the application procedures for upper floor uses.  This PN refers to 
ground floor uses only. 
 
 
To speed up processing of applications for change of use for ground floor 
industrial premises, and to minimize the payment of forbearance fee when lease 
enforcement action has been taken against them, it is in their own interest that owners 
of ground floor premises should take the following steps: 
 
(1) 
Check whether the use is in contravention of the outline zoning plan.   
 
(2) 
If the use is one of the permitted uses under Column I of the relevant 
outline zoning plan, then the owner should submit an application to the 
relevant District Lands Office.  In the submission, he should provide a 
plan showing the location and size of the property and ownership 
particulars to prove his title.  The District Lands Office will after verifying 
the information provided consider the application and make an offer to the 
applicant after consulting concerned departments. 
 
(3) 
If the use is in contravention of the outline zoning plan, then in addition to 
making an application to the District Lands Office, the applicant should 
also submit an application to the Town Planning Board for approval of the 
use.  The District Lands Office will only process an application after 
approval has been given by the Town Planning Board.  The District Lands 
Office will, in normal circumstances, make an offer of a waiver to permit 
Town Planning Board's approved use on the premises to the applicant 
within 4 months from the date he receives Town Planning Board's 
approval. 
 
(4) 
In both cases, the applicant will be required to settle a non-refundable 
administrative fee before the case is processed.  In addition, the applicant 
will also be required to pay a waiver fee based on the increase in market 
value of the premises arising from the change of use. 
 
 
 
 
(Patrick L.C. LAU) 
Director of Lands 
9 April 2005 
LD 3/1900/83 VIII 
