
----- page 1/3 -----
 
 
 
LD 4/1010/06 III (TC) 
 
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 7/2006
 
 
 
 
Processing of General Building Plan Submissions 
 
To streamline the current procedure for handling general building plan submissions 
by the District Lands offices (DLOs)(1) and in particular to provide a guideline for dealing with 
situations where amendment submissions are received whilst the first set of general building 
plan submission is still under scrutiny, it is hereby announced that the arrangements set out 
below will come into immediate effect: -.  
 
 (i) 
Practices to be adopted for new cases 
 
 
Subject to paras. (iii) & (iv) below, DLOs would apply their best efforts to complete a 
full check of the first set of the general building plan submission referred to them 
through the Centralized Processing System within our pledged time limit, 
notwithstanding that amendment plans may have been received during this period. 
 
 
To ensure that APs are made aware of the above, case officers in DLOs will, within one 
week upon receipt of the submission of the first set of general building plans, issue a 
standard letter acknowledging receipt and informing them that any amendment plans 
received during this period will be separately handled. 
 
 
After the first set of plans has been checked, DLOs will review and handle any 
amendment plans that might have been received, and to facilitate the case officers in 
DLOs to deal with these amendment plans, APs may be asked to consolidate all 
relevant amendments on an updated set of amendment plans (with the amendments to 
be shown in colour for easy identification) for further processing.  If required, APs 
will be invited for meetings with the case officers to expedite the approval process.  
                                                 
(1)  The reference to DLOs shall deem to include other relevant offices in Lands Department such as the Land 
Supply and Redevelopment Section, the Railway Development Section etc. that are also involved in the 
handling of building plan submissions 

----- page 2/3 -----
- 2 - 
For all subsequent submissions, the general rule is that the set of plans under checking 
will deem to have been superseded by the latest set of amendment plans received and 
the pledge will start to count again each time a set of such new submission is received.  
 
(ii) 
Transitional arrangement for on-going cases where approval has not yet be given 
 
 
DLOs will concentrate their efforts in checking the set of general building plan 
submission (either the first submission, the re-submission or the major revision) that 
has already been received prior to the date of this Practice Note.  After such has been 
done, the practice outlined at (i) above will apply. 
 
(iii) 
Situations where Master Layout Plan (MLP) submissions are required under lease 
 
 
If a full set of general building plan submission is received before the MLP required 
under the lease is approved or considered acceptable subject to conditions, this full set 
of general building plan submission will not be vetted. 
 
 
After the approval/acceptance of the MLP, DLOs may request the AP to consolidate all 
previous submissions and amendments approved by the Buildings Department (BD) 
into a full set of general building plan submission for approval by Lands Department 
(LandsD).  This consolidated set of general building plan submission, in full, would be 
vetted by the DLOs concerned within the pledged time limit.   
 
(iv) 
Situations where lease modification has yet to be completed at the time the first set 
of general building plan submission is required to be processed 
 
 
Similar to item (iii) above, after a binding contract has been entered into by acceptance 
of the basic terms offer for the lease modification between the applicant and the 
Government, DLOs may request the AP to consolidate all previous submissions and 
amendments approved by the BD into a full set of general building plan submission for 
approval by LandsD. This consolidated set of general building plan submission, in full, 
would be vetted by LandsD within the pledged time limit.   
 
2. 
 
For paragraphs 1(i), (iii) and (iv) above, the consolidated plans can be submitted to 
LandsD direct provided that the approval given by the BD for these plans is clearly shown on 
each of the plans. In line with the current practice, LandsD will send a copy of the 
approval/disapproval letter to BD such that BD will have a record of which sets of plans have 
been approved by LandsD. 

----- page 3/3 -----
- 3 - 
 
3. 
 
Please contact Mr. S.K. Yan, Senior Estate Surveyor(Building Plan Unit) at Tel. No. 
2417 6520 in respect of any enquiries related to this practice note. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
( Patrick L C Lau ) 
Director of Lands 
6 December 2006 
