# 2008-4.pdf pages=5 size=1707133

----- page 1/5 chars=2771 -----
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 4/2008 
Measures to Avoid Encroachment onto Government Land 
When owners (Grantees) proceed with development of their lots, there 
is the possibility that the proposed development may be contiguous with the lot 
boundary. 
When such situation happens there may be increased chances that the 
new development may unintentionally encroach onto the adjoining Government land. 
2. 
In order to avoid any completed development extending beyond the 
boundary of the private lot, hence, onto Government land, Government expects 
Grantees throughout the development period will , through the Authorized Person 
(AP) J the y have appointed, ensure that their developments will not encroach onto 
Government land or at least when encroachment is found, it will be rectified at the 
earliest possible time or otherwise unavoidable delay may be caused to their 
applications for the issue of Certificate of Compliance (C of C). 
3. 
In preparing the general building plans (GBP) for approval by 
Buildings Department and Lands Department, the AP should ensure that the proposed 
development will not encroach onto Government land(2l. This may be done by 
providing in the GBP a block plan of the proposed development together with a table 
showing the lot boundary co-ordinates which are in line with the co-ordinates shown 
on the sale/grant plan provided or agreed by the District Survey Office. 
4. 
Grantees are also advised, in drawing up tender documents for 
construction works, to ensure that the tender documents will specify that the 
contractor's setting out work shall be checked by an independent competent person, 
prior to the commencement of any construction work on site , which is in close 
proximity to the lot boundary. 
Thereafter the AP is required to confirm to the 
District Lands Office concerned that, having examined the report given to him by the 
independent/competent person, he believes that the construction work to be carried 
out will not encroach onto any adjoining Government land(2). 
5. 
To facilitate the processing of applications for the issue of C of C upon 
completion of the development, the AP is required to submit to the District Lands 
Office concerned, a further confirmation certifying that the development is built in 
( 1) It is for the AP or his employer to consider as appropriate the appo intment of any qualified 
profe ssionals including land surveyor etc., as may be necessary, to ass ist with the work required here. 
(2 ) Subject to approval of the Building Department and Lands Department, install ation or projection 
such as architectural or amenity features may be or are allowed to be constructed on or over 
government land . 
LD 7/5010/93 VII 

----- page 2/5 chars=753 -----
- 2 ­
accordance with the approved building plans and does not encroach onto Government 
land. 
The AP may, if he so wishes, jointly sign the letter of confirmation with the 
contractor and the independent competent person that he may have appointed. 
6. 
If any encroachment onto Go vernment land{2} is found, I may require 
appropriate reinstatement of the encroached land including demolition of structures 
erected thereon. 
I may also exercise, upon application by the Grantee, the power 
under the General Condition of the lease to grant the encroached land as an extension 
subject to an y conditions including payment of additional premium. 
However, 
Grantees should note that this is a discretionary power which I may elect not to 
exercise. 

----- page 3/5 chars=689 -----
- - --------
Appendix I 
Sample Letter on Confirmation of Contractor's Setting out Works 
ToDLO 
Lot No: 
(the Development) 
Having examined the survey report prepared by the independent competent 
person (Name) 
on the setting out works done by the contractor for 
the Development, I believe the proposed work will not encroach onto adjacent 
Government land, except for installations, projections, architectural or amenity 
features, formation or construction works etc . for which approval is to be obtained 
from Buildings Department and Lands Department such that they will be allowed to 
be constructed over Government land . 
(Name) 
_ 
Authorised Person 
Date: 
LD 7/50 10/93 VII 

----- page 4/5 chars=1825 -----
- ---------
- - - - - - - - - -
Appendix Jl 
Sample Letter on Confirmation of Completion of Development 
To DLO 
Lot No: 
(the Development) 
l/we (Name) 
, Registered Contractor of the Development, 
certify that the completed construction works do not encroach onto Government land , 
except for installations, projections, architectural or amenity features, formation or 
construction works etc . for which approval have been obtained from Buildings 
Department and Lands Department such that they are allowed to be constructed over 
Government land. 
(Name) 
_ 
Registered Contractor 
Date: 
I (Name) 
, independent competent person employed for 
the carrying out of a final survey for the Development, certify that the construction 
works do not encroach onto Government land , except for installations, projections, 
architectural or amenity features, formation or construction works etc. for which 
approval have been obtained from Buildings Department and Lands Department such 
that they are allowed to be constructed over Government land. 
(Name) 
_ 
(Professional Capacity) 
_ 
Independent Competent Person 
Date: 
The above development has been completed and in anticipation of the 
processing of the certificate of compliance for the Development, I (Name) 
, 
having examined the survey report prepared by the independent competent person 
(Name 
) for the completed construction works on the lot, confirm 
that the Development is built in accordance with the approved building plans and does 
not encroach onto Government land, except for installations, projections, architectural 
or amenity features, formation or construction works etc. for which approval have 
been obtained from Buildings Department and Lands Department such that they are 
allowed to be constructed over Government land. 
LD 7/5010/93 VII 

----- page 5/5 chars=54 -----
- --------
- 5 ­
(Name) 
_ 
Authorised Person 
Date: 
