# 2014_4.pdf pages=8 size=83904

----- page 1/8 chars=2185 -----
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 4/2014 
 
 
 
Accountable and Non-accountable Gross Floor Area (GFA) under Lease 
 
 
 
This practice note is issued to inform Authorized Persons (APs), 
Surveyors and Registered Structural Engineers (RSEs) of the Lands 
Department’s (LandsD) practice in treating certain areas as non-accountable 
GFA under leases.  
 
2. 
Generally, any building or buildings erected or to be erected within a 
lot must be measured for GFA unless exempted by the lease.  The lease may 
contain provisions that certain areas/facilities are or are not to be accountable 
for GFA.  If a right is reserved in the lease for the Director of Lands (the 
Director) to exempt certain areas/facilities from GFA calculation at her 
discretion, LandsD is usually prepared to follow the Building Authority’s (BA’s) 
ruling whilst the Director reserves her right and absolute discretion to do 
otherwise in individual cases.  It should be recognised that BA is vested with 
the statutory power to enforce the Buildings Ordinance whereas LandsD 
exercise the rights of a lessor/landlord under the government lease for the lot in 
question. 
 
3.  
Based on the above, some of the elements in a building for which 
exemption from GFA may be given are, as a guide only, set out in paragraphs 4 
to 38 below. 
 
Electrical and mechanical provisions 
 
4. 
For the purposes of GFA calculation, areas occupied solely by 
machinery or equipment for any lift, air-conditioning or heating system or any 
similar services may be exempted from GFA calculation and the BA’s ruling 
would usually be followed. 
 
Staircases, lift shafts and lobbies serving non-accountable GFA 
 
5. 
Staircases, lift shafts and lobbies serving non-accountable GFA such 
as basement or underground car parking and/or mechanical floors, etc. may be 
exempted from GFA calculation provided that they are physically separated 
from and do not provide access to the GFA accountable floors and their design 
and disposition are acceptable to the Director.  If these features serve the 
basement or underground car parking floor(s) as well as other floors, only the 
/ … 

----- page 2/8 chars=3104 -----
 
2 
portion of these features at the basement or underground car parking floor(s) 
may be exempted from GFA calculation and the BA’s ruling would usually be 
followed.  Any entrance lift lobby and/or lift shaft at and above ground which 
serve the development as well as the basement or underground car parking 
floor(s) will be included in GFA calculation. 
 
Staircases, lift shafts and lobbies passing through non-domestic GFA 
accountable areas leading to domestic towers 
 
6. 
Staircases, lift shafts and lobbies at various levels of a composite 
development solely serving the upper floor domestic development will be 
accountable for domestic GFA irrespective of other non-domestic uses at the 
corresponding levels.  If these features also serve other non-domestic GFA 
accountable areas, then they can be calculated for either domestic or 
non-domestic GFA. 
 
Headroom/ceiling height (floor-to-floor height) 
 
7. 
Generally, the floor-to-floor height of 3.5m for flats and 4.5m for 
house developments are acceptable.  Floor areas/spaces with excessive 
headroom (i.e. exceeding 3.5m for flats and 4.5m for house developments) will 
be rejected or double (or more) counted for GFA unless justified.  However, 
certain high ceilings arising from constraints or from a desire to create an effect 
on certain part(s) of a building may be acceptable provided that the design, 
layout and size of the floor areas/spaces with high ceilings would not likely lead 
to abuse and such floor areas/spaces would not likely become converted into 
something that would result in the lease conditions being breached and provided 
further that the design, layout and size of the floor areas/spaces are approved by 
the BA.  The examples are voids over living room, dining room or entrance 
foyer in a duplex flat/house, mall atriums in shopping arcades, banking halls, 
sporting halls and main entrance lobbies to hotels and the BA’s ruling would 
usually be followed. 
 
Flat roofs 
 
8. 
Balconies and similar areas which are cantilevered or supported by 
stilts are GFA accountable under the lease.  However, flat roofs in the form of 
natural building set back (i.e. on the roof of GFA accountable areas) may be 
non-accountable for GFA.  The BA’s ruling would usually be followed.   
 
9. 
Flat roofs on structures which are GFA exempted under the lease may 
also be non-accountable for GFA if the same are designated as common areas in 
the DMC.  Any proposed private flat roof/garden on the roof of GFA exempted 
structures may be GFA non-accountable if the size is about the same area of the 
residential unit on the same floor which it serves in flatted developments, or of 
the same floor of a house which it serves in estate-type house developments (i.e. 
“flat roof/garden to residential unit/house” area ratio 1:1).  If the area ratio of 
private flat roof/garden to residential unit/house is greater than 1:1, the area of 
private flat roof/garden is GFA accountable unless the size is reduced to about 
the 1:1 ratio or the area in excess of the corresponding residential unit/house is 
/ … 

----- page 3/8 chars=2869 -----
 
3 
designated as common area in the DMC. 
 
Open-sided covered landscape area in residential development 
 
10. 
The BA’s ruling would usually be followed to exempt open-sided 
covered landscape area in residential (excluding single residence) development 
or residential portion of a composite development from GFA calculation 
provided that the design, disposition and height of the landscape area are 
acceptable to the Director. 
 
Watchmen and/or caretakers’ office 
 
11. 
The lease condition to permit provision of watchmen and/or 
caretakers’ office and to exempt such facilities from GFA calculation in 
residential development or residential portion of a composite development is 
included in many existing leases.  The same provision will be incorporated, 
where appropriate, in the conditions of sale for sites to be disposed of by public 
auction or tender but the amount of GFA exemption would be different.  APs, 
Surveyors and RSEs should examine the lease conditions carefully.  In 
considering the exemption of such facility from GFA calculation, the BA’s 
ruling including the location and design would usually be followed. 
 
12. 
For leases which do not contain a lease condition permitting provision 
of watchmen and/or caretakers’ office, a modification of the lease conditions is 
required before any such areas can be exempted from GFA calculation. 
 
Owners’ corporation or owners’ committee office 
 
13. 
The lease condition to permit provision of owners’ corporation or 
owners’ committee office and to exempt such facility from GFA calculation in 
residential development or residential portion of a composite development is 
included in many existing leases (note: the exemption is not applicable to single 
residence development).  In considering the exemption of such facility from 
GFA calculation, the BA’s ruling including the location and design would 
usually be followed.  For leases which do not contain a lease condition 
permitting provision of owners’ corporation or owners’ committee office, a 
modification of the lease conditions is required before any such areas can be 
exempted from GFA calculation.  
 
Extra parking spaces, loading and unloading areas and undesignated areas in car 
parking floors 
 
14. 
Generally, parking/loading and unloading spaces in excess of the 
minimum parking requirements or the specific rate(s) (including the flexibility 
provisions) as stipulated in the lease conditions plus the associated circulation 
space, staircase, etc. and undesignated areas which are not used for parking or 
circulation purpose in car parking floors will be accountable for GFA.  
However, the Director may at her absolute discretion exempt certain 
extra/undesignated spaces arising from design constraints from GFA calculation 
on condition that the areas are designated as common areas in the DMC. 
/ … 

----- page 4/8 chars=2565 -----
 
4 
 
Covered walkways and passageways linking residential blocks at ground floor 
or podium level 
 
15. 
Covered walkways connecting residential blocks at ground floor or 
podium level may be excluded from GFA calculation provided that they are 
open-sided and their location, alignment and width are to the satisfaction of the 
Director. 
 
Covered walkways and passageways within podium development 
 
16. 
In addition to covered walkways and passageways mentioned in 
para. 15 above, the Director is prepared to exempt covered walkways and 
passageways within podium structures as required under the lease conditions 
from GFA calculation where provision for such exemption is contained in the 
lease conditions provided that they are provided in full compliance with all 
relevant lease requirements and to the satisfaction of the Director. 
 
17. 
However, covered walkway fronting shopping units, even if 
open-sided, is accountable for GFA unless the lease specifies otherwise. 
 
Light wells, yards and similar enclosed open areas 
 
18. 
Light wells, yards and similar side-enclosed areas which will not lead 
to easy abuse may be exempted from GFA calculation provided that the same is 
not covered by any structure.  The Director may follow the ruling of the BA.  
Where the design of 3-side or 4-side enclosed open areas will likely lead to 
abuse, such areas are generally GFA accountable even though they are 
exempted from GFA calculation by the BA. 
 
3-side enclosed open flat roofs/gardens/roofs/terraces 
 
19. 
3-side enclosed open flat roof/garden/roof/terrace is GFA accountable 
if the design will likely lead to abuse, unless it is designated as common area in 
the DMC. 
 
20. 
In 
general, 
the 
design 
of 
a 
3-side 
enclosed 
open 
flat 
roof/garden/roof/terrace may be acceptable for private use if it is facing the 
common area where it is easily visible by other residents/occupants or by the 
estate management office of the same development.  The design of a 3-side 
enclosed flat roof between 2 adjoining flats may also be acceptable for private 
use if the enclosed area is separated by a common parapet wall not exceeding 
1.5m in height.  Each proposal will be considered on its own merits. 
 
Outdoor swimming pools 
 
21. 
Provision of open swimming pool within lots restricted to garden use 
is permissible without the need for lease modification.  This concession is 
however given on the condition that the open swimming pool is provided at 
grade and none of the ancillary structures would result in the maximum 
/ … 

----- page 5/8 chars=2998 -----
 
5 
permitted GFA (and site coverage) of the lot or its parent lot being exceeded or 
in any other lease conditions being breached. 
 
22. 
In flatted developments or the residential portions of composite 
developments or estate-type house developments, provision of open swimming 
pool(s) may be exempted from GFA calculation provided that it is designated as 
common area in the DMC for the enjoyment of all the residents on the lot and is 
of reasonable size and design. 
 
23. 
In addition to provision of open communal swimming pools in flatted 
developments or the residential portion of composite developments or 
estate-type house developments as mentioned in paragraph 22 above, provision 
of open private swimming pools for the exclusive use of certain flats/units or 
houses may be permitted.  In general, provision of open private swimming 
pools of reasonable size and design and not exceeding “one pool per block” in 
flatted developments or the residential portions of composite developments or 
“one pool per house” in house developments, in addition to the open communal 
swimming pool(s) within the same development may be acceptable and 
exempted from GFA calculation.  The “one pool per block” or “one pool per 
house” guideline may be relaxed if the open private swimming pool(s) is 
provided at grade.  Each proposal will be considered on its own merits taking 
into account the type, size, design, disposition, height and potential 
environmental impact of the pool(s). 
 
24. 
The general principles provided in paragraphs 22 and 23 above are 
also applicable to lots where the lease conditions do not contain the standard 
“Recreational Facilities” clause or similar provision for GFA exemption. 
 
25. 
For non-residential developments other than hotels, an open 
private/communal swimming pool (whether provided at grade or not) and its 
ancillary structures will be GFA accountable unless exemption is specifically 
provided in the lease. 
 
26. 
Maintenance void of not exceeding 700mm (clear headroom) 
underneath a swimming pool and pool deck for maintenance purpose would be 
exempted from GFA calculation if the same is accepted by the BA.  Headroom 
of the maintenance void exceeding 700mm may also be accepted if 
justifications are provided by the APs and the same is accepted by the BA.  
Maintenance corridor not exceeding 1.1m (clear width) under or adjacent to the 
pool deck of a private swimming pool or not exceeding 1.5m (clear width) 
under or adjacent to the pool deck of a communal swimming pool would 
generally be exempted from GFA calculation if the same is accepted by the BA. 
 
Open staircases serving as main access to residential units/houses 
 
27. 
If an open external staircase is proposed serving as the main access to 
a residential unit/house in order to save GFA for providing the same within the 
residential unit/house, the open external staircase is GFA accountable 
notwithstanding that GFA exemption is granted by the BA. 
 
/ … 

----- page 6/8 chars=2863 -----
 
6 
Private/Communal stairhood at roof-top of flatted developments 
 
28. 
An open private staircase linking the residential unit on the top floor 
to the private roof, in addition to a communal staircase/stairhood within the 
same block of flatted development would normally be non-accountable for GFA.  
The BA’s ruling would usually be followed 
 
29. 
However, a private stairhood at the roof linking the residential unit on 
the top floor to the private roof, in addition to a communal staircase/stairhood 
within the same block of flatted development will be GFA accountable. 
 
30. 
Communal stairhood serving for maintenance and fire escape 
purposes would be exempted from GFA calculation if the size and number are 
reasonable.  The BA’s ruling would usually be followed. 
 
Curtain wall systems 
 
31. 
Where a curtain wall system forms the external face of a building, the 
BA is prepared to accept the outer face of the structural elements (e.g. beams, 
columns and floor slabs etc.) as the external wall for the purpose of 
measurement of GFA if, amongst other criteria, the projection of the curtain 
wall system from the outer face of the structural elements does not exceed the 
dimension(s) specified in PNAP No. APP-2 issued by BD.  The basis of 
measurement of GFA adopted by the BA would usually be followed and 
exemption of curtain wall systems from GFA calculation will be given if the 
exemption provision is incorporated in the “Definition of GFA and site 
coverage” clause, which is commonly found in modern leases. 
 
32. 
For leases which do not contain the GFA exemption clause for curtain 
wall systems, LandsD will adopt a literal interpretation of the “Definition of the 
GFA” clause in that the actual external faces of the external walls will be taken 
as the reference point for calculation of GFA irrespective of the design of the 
external walls.  When building plans for developments designed with curtain 
wall systems and subject to the aforesaid lease conditions are approved by the 
BA adopting the basis of measurement of GFA in accordance with PNAP No. 
APP-2, the GFA will exceed that permitted under the lease.  A modification of 
the lease conditions is required before the curtain wall systems can be exempted 
from GFA calculation  
 
Environmentally friendly features 
 
33. 
Modern leases usually contain a clause to exempt from GFA 
calculation environmentally friendly features such as balcony, utility platform, 
non-structural prefabricated external wall, noise barrier, communal sky garden, 
communal podium garden, etc. as provided under Joint Practice Note Nos. 1 
and 2.  In considering the grant of GFA exemptions for environmentally 
friendly features under the lease, it is a pre-requisite that such exemptions must 
first be granted by the BA and the BA’s ruling would usually be followed. 
 
/ … 

----- page 7/8 chars=2392 -----
 
7 
34. 
For leases which do not contain the GFA exemption provision for 
environmentally friendly features and subject to the condition that GFA 
exemption has been granted by the BA, a modification of lease conditions will 
be required before any such feature can be exempted from GFA calculation. 
 
Bay windows and A/C platforms 
 
35. 
Bay windows and A/C platforms may be exempted from GFA 
calculation if there are exemption provisions in the lease and the BA’s ruling 
would usually be followed. 
 
Canopies 
 
36. 
Generally, canopies are permitted provided that the design is 
acceptable and unlikely to be abused and there are exemption provisions in the 
lease.  The BA’s ruling on the area of canopies exemptible from GFA 
calculation would usually be followed. 
 
Back-of-house facilities 
 
37. 
In hotel developments, back-of-house facilities (BOH) (also known 
as supporting facilities) such as storerooms for linen, staff toilets for the 
operation of the hotel, etc. will be required.  Unless the lease has specific 
provision stating that BOH or supporting facilities should be included in the 
overall or hotel GFA, the BA’s ruling would usually be followed in exempting 
such facilities from GFA calculation. 
 
Recreational facilities 
 
38. 
Modern leases governing residential developments or the residential 
portions of composite developments usually contain a standard “Recreational 
Facilities” clause permitting the provision of recreational facilities and ancillary 
facilities within the lot for the common use by the residents and their bona fide 
visitors.  Such facilities, commonly called a clubhouse, if provided indoors at 
appropriate scale and composition, may be exempted from GFA calculation.  
Guidelines as to the types of facilities that will be permitted and exempted from 
GFA calculation are provided in LAO PN Issue No. 4/2000(B).  The BA’s 
ruling on the composition of active, passive and ancillary facilities would 
usually be followed. 
 
Appeal and reconsideration of previous decisions 
 
39. 
Without prejudice to the Government’s rights under the relevant 
government lease and its rights as lessor/landlord, the Director may at her 
discretion consider appeal against decision on GFA exemption.  The Applicant 
should give reasons in support of the appeal.  The Director’s decision on the 
appeal shall be final and binding. 
 
/ … 

----- page 8/8 chars=0 -----
