			Lands Administration Office			Lands Department	Practice Note		Issue No.  2/2000Car Parking RequirementMechanical Parking System	Lease conditions usually contain clauses specifying the number of parking spaces to be provided in the development on the lot.  The purpose is to ensure that an appropriate number of spaces is provided to serve the occupants of the building.  The conventional approach to meet this requirement is to construct sufficient floors to accommodate all these spaces (the conventional system).	A mechanical car parking system may be an alternative way to achieve the same goal.  When such a system is proposed as a means to achieve the compliance with the car parking requirement, I am prepared to grant approval under the lease to plans showing this subject to the following information being provided to my satisfaction:-(a)	the type of mechanical parking system proposed;(b)	the waiting area proposed together with an assessment report demonstrating that such area will be large enough to accommodate the anticipated vehicles waiting to enter the car park without causing a tail-back onto the public road; and(c)	a layout plan, together with relevant elevation plans demonstrating that the system is capable of satisfying any stipulated parking requirement including space requirement for light vans which are categorized as private car.(d)	the number of parking spaces provided does not exceed the minimum number stipulated in the lease.always provided that not less than one-sixth of the total number of space provided shall be accommodated in the conventional system.	This practice note deals only with how car parking spaces may be provided.  The car parking proposal should also satisfy other conditions contained in the car parking or other clauses of the Conditions of Grant governing the development.	( R.D. Pope )	Director of Lands	February 2000Information required under the assessment report	The prime objective is to ensure no public road is affected by the car park.  To achieve this objective no car is allowed to wait at the public street to enter the car park.  A waiting area is therefore required to be provided inside the car park.  In assessing the size of the waiting area required the following factors should be taken into account:-(a)	The estimated hourly traffic volume at the entrance of the car park during peak hours.  If the proposed mechanical parking system is inside a conventional car park, the hourly traffic volume that would use the parking system and the ordinary parking spaces should also be separately provided.(b)	The longest time taken to park a car at the most remote location of the mechanical parking system.  In case of tower parks, it means the time cycle between two cars leaving the waiting area assuming that both cars which arrive at the car park at the same time are using the same car lift or entering the same tower park.  In case of stacking machines, it means the time taken to park the car at the upper space with the lower space being occupied.(c)	The average waiting period during peak hours.	The assessment report should also provide a contingency plan to demonstrate the operation of the car park in case of mechanical failure during peak hours.  The report should also provide a route inside the car park to divert traffic back onto the public road.