
----- page 1/2 -----
 
1
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note  
 
 
   
Issue No. 1/2019 
 
 
  
 
Acceptable uses in Premises restricted to  
‘Godown Purposes’ under Lease 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Premises in parts of a building held under lease1 with a ‘godown purposes’ user 
clause (“Godown Premises”) may only be used for storage of goods but movement of the goods 
is expected and the entire operation shall involve transient deposit and storage for delivery 
purpose.   
 
“Cargo handling and forwarding facility” and “Recyclable collection centre” 
 
2. 
 
“Cargo handling and forwarding facility” as referred to in the Definitions of 
Terms promulgated by the Town Planning Board (“DoT”), means any premises or structure 
which provides facilities for the processing of inbound, transhipment and outbound cargo 
and/or freight forwarding facilities including the necessary logistics support such as packaging, 
labelling and final assembly of goods for distribution.“Recyclable collection centre” as 
referred to in DoT means any premises where community-based recycling activities involving 
collection, storage, sorting, packing and baling of recyclable materials for recycling purposes 
are carried out.  For the purpose of this Practice Note, “cargo handling and forwarding facility” 
and “recyclable collection centre” shall follow the above meaning but subject to exclusions2  . 
 
3. 
 
Provided that there is primarily storage of goods/material in the Godown 
Premises and the storage has attendant consequences such as those mentioned in paragraph 1 
above, “cargo handling and forwarding facility” and “recyclable collection centre” as 
described in paragraph 2 above in Godown Premises will generally be accepted under lease by 
Lands Department (“LandsD”).   In essence, an overall view of the activities carried on and 
within the Godown Premises including, but without limitation, the nature and cumulative 
effect of all activities will be taken into account and be considered for individual cases.  Please 
also note that in deciding whether a particular use or case is conforming to lease provisions, the 
context of the case including, inter alia, the particular lease in question, as well as the proposed 
design of the operation, the operation details and the kind of technology being employed will 
be looked at and considered. In determining whether a particular use or case is conforming to 
lease provisions, the decision of the Director of Lands shall be final.  
 
 
                                                 
1 All references to “lease” in this Practice Note cover Government Lease or Conditions of Sale / Grant / 
Exchange, etc. (as the case may be) and “leases” shall be construed accordingly. 
 
2  “Cargo handling and forwarding facility” do not include container freight station or free-standing 
purpose-design logistics centre.  “Recyclable collection centre” do not include sorting of municipal solid 
waste. 

----- page 2/2 -----
4. 
Owners are reminded of the need to approach other relevant authorities and 
departments, such as Fire Services Department and the Building Authority, regarding any other 
approvals, permissions or licences that may be required under any Ordinances, by-laws, 
regulations, guidance notes or practice directions that are in force from time to time in relation 
to the use of premises in a building, whether or not the uses that may be permitted under lease 
would involve any alteration, structural or otherwise, to the building, and comply with all 
necessary requirements from the relevant authorities and department. 
5. 
This Practice Note only deals with the general approach in considering whether 
the uses of premises restricted to 'godown purposes' under lease for "cargo handling and 
forwarding facility" or " recyclable collection centre" may be acceptable, but not further or 
otherwise; nothing herein shall in anyway affect or prejudice the Government's rights and 
exercise of power in the capacity of landlord under any specific lease or case, whether in 
relation to interpretation of lease provisions or their enforcement or otherwise, no 
representation whatsoever is hereby made in relation to any permitted uses under lease 
provisions or their interpretation, and nothing herein shall be construed as any waiver of any 
lease provisions. 
6. 
This Practice Note is issued for general reference purposes only. All rights to 
modify the whole or any part of this Practice Note are hereby reserved. 
2 
( Thomas Chan ) 
Director of Lands 
21 January 2019 
