
----- page 1/2 -----
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 7/2019 
Provision of Transitional Housing in Converted Existing Industrial Building 
This Practice Note supplements (i) Lands Department ("LandsD") Lands 
Administration Office ("LAO") Practice Note No. 1/2010 as varied by LandsD LAO Practice 
Note Nos. I/2010A and 1/2010B (collectively "1/2010 PNs") and supplemented by LandsD 
LAO Practice Note No. 2/2016; and (ii) LandsD LAO Practice Note No. 6/2019 ("PN 
6/20 19"), both of which are in relation to special waiver for conversion of an entire existing 
industrial building for non-industrial purposes (collectively "Special Waiver"). 
2. 
In 
accordance with 
Government's 
prevailing policy of facilitating 
community-initiated transitional housing projects, owners may apply for a waiver (as part of or 
in addition to the application for the Special Waiver, or otherwise) for the conversion of an 
existing industrial building and for the provision and use of the converted industrial building or 
part thereof, situated in an area zoned "Commercial", "Comprehensive Development Area", 
"Other Specified Uses" annotated "Business", or "Residential" according to the statutory town 
plans prepared pursuant to the Town Planning Ordinance, any regulations made thereunder and 
any amending legislation (collectively "TPO"), for transitional housing purposes 
("Transitional Housing Waiver") for a term of not more than five (5) years provided that: 
(a) 
the transitional housing is to be run by a non-profit making organisation 
1 or 
social enterprise2 (collectively "NGOs") and the waiver application is supported 
by the Transport and Housing Bureau ("THB"). To this end, the Task Force on 
Transitional Housing ("Task Force") has been established under THB to 
provide one-stop facilitation; and 
(b) 
the temporary use as transitional housing is permitted under the statutory town 
plans prepared pursuant to the TP03. 
A non-profit making organisation refers to a charitable institution or trust of a public character exempt from 
tax under section 88 of the Inland Revenue Ordinance (Cap. 112), or a company incorporated under the 
Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) or the former Companies Ordinance (Cap. 32) as limited by guarantee 
whose objects and powers do not include distribution of profits to members, or a non-profit-making society 
registered or body established under any legislation in Hong Kong. 
2 
In general, a social enterprise ("SE") is a business to achieve specific social objectives such as providing 
services or products needed by the community, creating employment and training opportunities for the socially 
disadvantaged and protecting the environment. Its profits will be principally reinvested in the business for the 
social objectives it pursues. It is expected that the SE should be an institution listed under the "Hot spots for 
consumptions 
at 
SEs" 
compiled 
by 
the 
Home 
Affairs 
Department 
(www.social-enterprises.gov.hk/en/hotspots/full_text.html), or the "Social Enterprise Directory" compiled by 
the Social Enterprise Business Centre (socialenterprise.org.hk/en/sedb) 
3 
Owners are advised to note the announcement made by the Town Planning Board through a press release on 26 
November 2018 about eligible transitional housing for temporary use in the context of statutory town plans 
(www.info.gov.hk/gia/general/20 1811 /26/P20 18 11 2600305.htm). 

----- page 2/2 -----
In making the application (particularly if it does not fonn part of the ·original 
application for the Special Waiver), owners are advised to refer to Appendices I 
and II to PN 6/2019 for a sample of the format of such an application and 
infonnation on the use of the information provided in the application 
respectively. For the avoidance of doubt, no new application for the Special 
Waiver under the 1/2010 PNs would be accepted. However, owners may 
submit a supplementary application for the Transitional Housing Waiver for 
cases where the Special Waiver application is under processing, or a new 
application for the Transitional Housing Waiver in respect of the 
wholesale-converted building or part thereof covered by the Special Waiver 
issued pursuant to the 1/2010 PNs. 
3. 
The Transitional Housing Waiver (as part of the Special Waiver or otherwise), 
if approved by LandsD, will be granted at nil waiver fee, nil deposit and nil or no additional 
administrative fee (as the case may be) and subject to such other terms and conditions as may 
be imposed by LandsD (including those as recommended by the Task Force) at its sole and 
absolute discretion, such as restriction on letting of the wholesale-converted industrial building 
or part thereof for transitional housing purposes to the NGOs as agreed by THB. 
4. 
Owners are reminded of the need to approach other relevant authorities and 
departments, such as the Town Planning Board, Fire Services Department and the Building 
Authority to ensure compliance with all applicable requirements and to obtain all necessary 
approvals, pennits, pennissions or licences that may be required under any Ordinances, 
by-laws or regulations that are in force from time to time, whether or not the provision of 
transitional housing that may be required or pennitted under the Transitional Housing Waiver 
would involve any alteration, structural or otherwise, to the existing industrial building. The 
issue of a Transitional Housing Waiver should not be construed as any guarantee by LandsD on 
the feasibility of the proposed transitional housing use in the subject building nor accepting any 
liability on the expenses the owners may or had incurred. 
5. 
Every application submitted to LandsD pursuant to this Practice Note will be 
considered on its own merits by LandsD at its absolute discretion acting in its capacity as a 
landlord, who may approve or reject any such application. This Practice Note shall not 
constitute any representation on the part of the Government or give rise to any expectation on 
the part of the applicant that any application submitted to the LandsD will be processed or 
approved. 
6. 
This Practice Note is issued for general reference purposes only. All rights to 
modify the whole or any part of this Practice Note are hereby reserved. 
2 
( Thomas Chan ) 
Director of Lands 
18 April 2019 
