
----- page 1/4 -----
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note  
 
 
   
Issue No. 10/2025 
 
 
 
Offering Private Land to Offset the Land Premium Payable 
for Land Exchange under the “Enhanced Conventional New Town Approach” 
or Land Grant by Tender under the “Large-scale Land Disposal” Arrangement 
in New Development Areas of the Northern Metropolis 
 
 
 
To promote market participation and to expedite the development of the 
Northern Metropolis (“NM”), a new premium payment arrangement is introduced to allow 
applicants for lease modification including land exchange (collectively “land exchange”) under 
the “Enhanced Conventional New Town Approach” (“ECNTA”)1 or tenderers for grant of land 
by tender under the “Large-scale Land Disposal” (“LSLD”) arrangement in New Development 
Areas (“NDAs”) of the NM to offer private land, which is planned to be resumed or has been 
resumed by the Government but with ex-gratia allowance (“EGA”) yet to be released to the 
former owners, to offset the balance of land premium payable (“Premium Offsetting”) for the 
land exchange under the ECNTA and the land granted by tender under the LSLD arrangement. 
 
Land Eligible for Premium Offsetting 
 
2. 
 
The private land to be offered for Premium Offsetting (“the Offered Land”) 
must be agricultural land2 located within the NM3 owned by :  
 
(i) an applicant for land exchange under the ECNTA or its associated company within the 
meaning of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) as of the date of promulgation of the 
Practice Note inviting applications for the land exchange under the ECNTA; or 
 
(ii) a tenderer for grant of land under the LSLD arrangement or its associated company 
within the meaning of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) as of the date of tender 
invitation under the LSLD arrangement 
 
(both dates collectively “the relevant date”)4.  The Offered Land must be included in a list of 
                                                 
1  Lands Department Lands Administration Office Practice Note No. 13/2023 refers. 
 
2    Agricultural land refers to old schedule and new grant lots demised for agricultural use. 
 
3  For the avoidance of doubt, this excludes any private land (agricultural or otherwise) to be surrendered in 
exchange for grant of a site under the ECNTA. 
 
4    For the purpose of this Practice Note, the Offered Land is deemed to be owned by the applicant or the tenderer 
or their associated company within the meaning of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) as of the relevant 
date if the Offered Land has been resumed by the Government but the EGA is yet to be released to the applicant 
or the tenderer or their associated company as former owner as of the relevant date. 

----- page 2/4 -----
- 2 - 
 
projects as the Government may designate from time to time (“the list of designated projects”) 
which sets out the private land that : 
 
(i) 
may be resumed by the Government under the relevant Ordinances5 within 
three years of the relevant date; or  
 
(ii) 
has already been resumed by the Government but with EGA yet to be released 
to the former owners at the relevant date. 
 
The list of designated projects will be published on the website of the Lands Department 
(“LandsD”) (www.landsd.gov.hk/en/land-acq-clearance/new-development-area.html). 
 
Applications for Premium Offsetting 
 
3. 
 
Applicants seeking to use or apply the value of the Offered Land for Premium 
Offsetting in land exchange applications under the ECNTA or in tenders under the LSLD 
arrangement (collectively “the Applicants”) should refer to the list of designated projects at the 
relevant date and make their offers (with the ownership and particulars of each of the Offered 
Land clearly stated) at the time of submitting ECNTA land exchange applications or LSLD 
tenders (as the case may be).  There shall not be any change to the ownership of any of the 
Offered Land or any amendment or variation to the particulars of any of the Offered Land once 
the offer is made. 
 
4. 
 
Applicants are required to prove title and the area of the Offered Land in all 
respects to the satisfaction of LandsD and shall within such time limit as required by LandsD 
submit such documents (including title documents) of the Offered Land for title checking and 
area verification as required, and answer all requisitions raised by LandsD.  If any of the 
Offered Land is not owned by the Applicants, documentary proof of the owners of the land 
being their associated companies within the meaning of the Companies Ordinance (Cap. 622) 
must be provided in all respects to the satisfaction of LandsD. Any delay or failure in 
submitting the required documents (including title documents) of the Offered Land or 
answering requisitions may result in the Government’s refusal to accept any of the Offered 
Land for Premium Offsetting. 
 
5. 
 
If any of the Offered Land, which has yet to be resumed by the Government, is 
found acceptable for Premium Offsetting after completion of checking by the Government, 
arrangement will be made for a resumption notice under the relevant Ordinances to be gazetted, 
served and affixed on the respective Offered Land for the ownership of the land to revert to the 
Government within one month of the resumption notice.  The Government will arrange 
clearance of any households and business operators on the land following the prevailing 
practice of land resumption in NDAs.  The former owners have to sign an Agreement as to 
Compensation and Indemnity (“ACI”) with the Government within one month of the 
resumption notice or such other period as may be specified by the Government.  The ACI is, 
inter alia, for former owners to indicate agreement to use the value (as determined in the 
manners specified in paragraph 6 below) of the Offered Land found acceptable by Government 
for Premium Offsetting and to indemnify the Government from any liabilities, claims, losses, 
damages etc. arising from the breach of warranty that the former owners had good right and 
                                                 
 
5  These include the Lands Resumption Ordinance (Cap. 124), Roads (Works, Use and Compensation) 
Ordinance (Cap. 370), Roads (Works, Use and Compensation) (Cap. 370) as applied by section 26 of the 
Water Pollution Control (Sewerage) Regulation (Cap. 358AL) and Railways Ordinance (Cap. 519). 

----- page 3/4 -----
- 3 - 
 
title to the Offered Land free from encumbrances, and is entitled to the compensation in relation 
to the Offered Land.  
 
Value of the Offered Land for Premium Offsetting 
 
6. 
 
The value of the Offered Land for Premium Offsetting will be determined based 
on the Tier One zone or Tier Two zone ex-gratia compensation rate 6 for resumption of 
agricultural land prevailing as of the date when the resumption notice is affixed or the date of 
reversion, whichever is the higher.  The calculated value, including interest (if any) accrued 
before the EGA is released7, will then be applied for Premium Offsetting for the land exchange 
under the ECNTA or the land granted by tender under the LSLD arrangement.    
 
For Land Exchange under the ECNTA 
 
7. 
 
The Premium Offsetting arrangement has to be completed within a specified 
time to be stipulated in the Practice Note to be issued for land exchange applications under the 
ECNTA in order not to affect the project programme of the NM.  The EGA amount payable in 
respect of the Offered Land (as stated in the executed ACI), which has been accepted for 
Premium Offsetting, will be used or applied to offset the balance of land premium payable for 
the land exchange.  In a case where the EGA amount is not sufficient to cover the entire balance 
of the land premium, the remaining land premium has to be paid by cash by a designated 
deadline set by LandsD so as to conclude the land exchange.   
 
For Land Granted by Tender under the LSLD Arrangement 
 
8. 
 
Under the LSLD arrangement, tenderers would be allowed to opt for staged 
payment to settle the balance of land premium (“Staged Payment”), as an alternative payment 
option to lump sum payment within a specified period from tender award stated in the tender 
documents (“the Tender Documents”).  Only the successful tenderer who has opted for Staged 
Payment would be allowed to settle the remaining balance of land premium, being at most 75% 
of the total land premium (or as otherwise specified in the Tender Documents), by Premium 
Offsetting within three years from tender award (or as otherwise specified in the Tender 
Documents)8. The successful tenderer would also be required to provide a written guarantee 
from its parent company for the Staged Payment and Premium Offsetting in a form to be 
approved by LandsD.  
 
 
                                                 
6  The applicable rates will depend on whether the land concerned is planned to be resumed for development 
uses (such as NDAs) or non-development uses (such as conservation of wetlands) and are subject to changes 
by the Government from time to time.  For reference, as from 1 October 2025, the Tier One zone and Tier 
Two zone rates for resumption of agricultural land in the New Territories are $1,008 and $504 per square foot 
respectively.  
 
7  For any land already resumed, interest on compensation may accrue for the period from the date of reversion 
until the date of payment of compensation.  In general, where the owner is an individual, payment of 
compensation will be taken as the date when the former owner signs the ACI; where the owner is a body 
corporate, payment of compensation will be taken as the date after the checking of execution of the ACI is 
completed.  For Premium Offsetting, however, the day of payment of compensation will be deemed to have 
taken place on the date of signing or execution of the ACI. 
 
8  The Premium Offsetting is confined to successful tenderer who has opted for Staged Payment to allow for 
completion of the necessary process, including ownership and company status checks, area verification, title 
check, statutory procedures etc. 

----- page 4/4 -----
