
----- page 1/9 -----
 
1 
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
 
Practice Note  
 
 
   
Issue No. 1/2024 
 
 
 
Applications for Lease Modification 
including Land Exchange for Development of Land  
in Hung Shui Kiu/Ha Tsuen New Development Area 
 
 
 
 
Following the issue of the Practice Note (“PN”) No. 13/2023 on New Arrangements 
for Applications for Lease Modification, including Land Exchange under the “Enhanced 
Conventional New Town Approach” (“ECNTA”) by Lands Department  (“LandsD”) on 28 
December 2023, owners of private lots within Hung Shui Kiu/Ha Tsuen New Development 
Area (“HSK/HT NDA”) may apply to LandsD for a lease modification including land exchange 
(collectively “land exchange”) for development of their lots within sites earmarked by the 
Government for private development and open for land exchange application within HSK/HT 
NDA under the ECNTA.  Lot owners who wish to apply for or have applied for such a land 
exchange (“Applicants”) should refer to this PN and PN No. 13/2023 for information regarding 
the application.   
 
Relevant Plans 
 
2. 
Development of the HSK/HT NDA should follow the approved Hung Shui Kiu and 
Ha Tsuen Outline Zoning Plan No. S/HSK/2 gazetted on 26 October 2018 and/or on any 
subsequent amendment plans thereof (“the OZP”).  Information in respect of the OZP may be 
obtained from the Town Planning Board website: http://www.ozp.tpb.gov.hk/.  Hard copies of 
the OZP are also available for sale at the Map Publications Centres.  Development of the 
HSK/HT NDA should also make reference to the adopted Hung Shui Kiu and Ha Tsuen Outline 
Development Plan (“the ODP”), which is available for sale at the Map Publications Centres and 
for inspection at the Planning Enquiry Counters of the Planning Department. 
 
Sites Open for Application 
 
3. 
The sites in the HSK/HT NDA which are now open for land exchange application are 
coloured yellow hatched red or green hatched red on the Reference Plan (“designated 
development sites”), which has been uploaded onto LandsD’s website.  In general, designated 
development sites include sites planned for private residential, mixed residential and 
commercial, commercial or industry (earmarked for “Other Specified Uses” (“OU”) annotated 
“Port Back-up, Storage and Workshop Uses”) development under the Second Phase and 
 

----- page 2/9 -----
 
2 
Remaining Phase development of HSK/HT NDA in the ODP1 (denoted on the Reference Plan 
respectively as “Sites Open for Application for Lease Modification (including in-situ Land 
Exchange) in Second Phase of Hung Shui Kiu/Ha Tsuen New Development Area” (“Second 
Phase sites”) and “Sites Open for Application for Lease Modification (including in-situ Land 
Exchange) in Remaining Phase of Hung Shui Kiu/Ha Tsuen New Development Area” 
( “Remaining Phase sites”) .  In view of the phased development programme of HSK/HT NDA, 
priority will be given to those applications involving the Second Phase sites as the land 
resumption and development programme for the Second Phase development is earlier.  
Applications involving the Remaining Phase sites will in general be accorded with lower 
priority, and their relative priority will be determined taking into account relevant factors such 
as technical feasibility, readiness of supporting infrastructure and access, etc.  For the avoidance 
of doubt, the exact locations and boundaries of the sites open for application for land exchange 
as shown in the Reference Plan are for illustration only and may be adjusted or amended as 
appropriate.  The Government retains full discretion in determining the boundary of the land 
parcels for the land exchange site, including amalgamating adjoining designated development 
sites into a single development if considered appropriate.  
 
Submission Requirements and Criteria 
 
4. 
When submitting land exchange applications, Applicants should follow the checklist 
of basic submission requirements in Appendix I and acknowledge the Note on Use of Personal 
Information Required in the Application in Appendix II for any personal information provided 
in the application.   Applicants should refer to PN No. 13/2023 in relation to the general 
application requirements and new arrangements for land exchange applications under the 
ECNTA.  For application criteria specifically applicable to HSK/HT NDA, Applicants should 
refer to the Specific Criteria set out in Appendix III. 
 
5. 
Applicants should note and observe the relevant urban and green design requirements 
and guidelines applicable to the designated development sites as stipulated under the “Urban 
and Green Design Requirement Brief for Private Development Sites for Future Town Centre 
and District Commercial Node” and the “Urban Design Guidelines for Future Town Centre & 
District Commercial Node” issued by the Civil Engineering and Development Department and 
the Planning Department respectively.  Both documents can be downloaded from the HSK/HT 
NDA website: http://hskhtnda.hk/.  Applicants will be advised of the detailed requirements 
applicable to their applications (if any) individually in due course.  Such requirements may be 
imposed by the Government in its absolute discretion specified in the land grant documents. 
 
6. 
As stated in PN No. 13/2023, Applicants for land exchange under ECNTA may be 
required by the Government to construct public facilities, including but not limited to public 
transport interchanges, open space or welfare/recreational facilities.  For the avoidance of 
doubt, in accordance with PN No. 13/2023, Applicants who opt for the relaxed land ownership 
criterion shall be required to construct public facilities in the HSK/HT NDA as a condition for 
the land exchange; as for other Applicants, the Government may invite them to construct public 
facilities as appropriate. The construction of any public facilities shall be in specified manners 
                                                 
1 Sites with adjoining or intervening government land capable of reasonable separate alienation or development 
and sites in the Remaining Phase which are subject to planning review are not open for land exchange application 
at this stage.  Sites to be affected by Government’s works, intended for development under the Railway plus 
Property model, or subject to other policy considerations are also not open for land exchange application.   

----- page 3/9 -----
 
3 
with specified materials and to specified standards as may be required by the Government in its 
absolute discretion and specified in the land grant documents.  If the Government considers it 
appropriate, the construction cost of the public facilities may be premium deductible.  The 
Government will determine the public facilities (if any) to be constructed by individual 
Applicants for designated development sites, as well as their detailed requirements and 
premium-deductible costs (if applicable), and will inform the Applicants individually.  In 
particular, for designated development sites within Planning Area 32A in the ODP, Applicants 
should take note of the potential requirement to construct facilities relating to a proposed 
strategic Transport Interchange Hub.   
 
Specific Requirement for Specific Sites Earmarked for “OU” annotated “Port Back-up, 
Storage and Workshop Uses” 
 
7. 
For specific sites earmarked for “OU” annotated “Port Back-up, Storage and 
Workshop Uses” which are relatively large in size and marked with a hash (“#”) on the 
Reference Plan, the Applicant will be required to hand over, upon completion of the 
development, no less than 30% of the floor space to Government (“the Government 
Accommodation”) for accommodating brownfield operations displaced by Government 
development projects.  The Government Accommodation will be taken over by the Government 
for leasing to displaced brownfield operators at terms and conditions to be decided by the 
Government (the uses of which will be generally compatible with, though not necessarily 
belonging to, the major uses for the remaining 70% floor space).  Relevant specific 
requirements will be incorporated as part of the land exchange conditions as needed. 
 
Assessment of Premium at Standard Rates 
 
8. 
  The Government will provide an option for assessment of premium at standard rates 
to land exchange applications in the NDA.  Details will be announced in due course.  For the 
avoidance of doubt, PN No. 12/2023 on Charging Land Premium at Standard Rates on Lease 
Modifications for Redevelopment of Industrial Buildings does not apply to the land exchange 
applications pursuant to this PN. 
 
Submission of Applications and Deadlines 
 
9. 
Applications should be submitted to LandsD New Development Area Section for the 
attention of the Chief Estate Surveyor/NDA, which is located in Unit 1501-10, 15/F, Landmark 
North, 39 Lung Sum Avenue, Sheung Shui, New Territories. The deadline for submitting land 
exchange applications in respect of the Second Phase sites pursuant to this PN is 30 April 2024. 
Late applications will not be considered.  Any accepted application for the Second Phase sites 
will cease to be processed if a binding basic terms offer (with premium) cannot be issued and 
accepted on or before 31 March 2025 taking into account the Government’s development 
programme.  The administrative fee or any other fee paid will not be refunded upon cessation 
of processing the applications in this circumstance or in any of the circumstance as set out in 
any letter demanding payment of administrative fee.  The deadlines for receiving and 
concluding applications in respect of Remaining Phase sites will be separately announced on 
LandsD’s website at an appropriate time having regard to the development programme of the 
Remaining Phase.  
 

----- page 4/9 -----
 
4 
10. 
Owners are advised to engage competent professionals to assist them in making the 
applications.   
 
11. 
Please note that LandsD acting in its capacity as private landlord may, at its sole and 
absolute discretion, approve or reject any applications.  This PN shall not constitute any 
representation on the part of the Government or give rise to any expectation on that part of the 
Applicant that any application submitted to LandsD will be processed or approved. 
 
12. 
This PN is issued for general reference purposes only.  All rights to modify the whole 
or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
( Andrew LAI ) 
Director of Lands 
1 February 2024 
 

----- page 5/9 -----
 
1 
 
 
Checklist of Basic Requirements for Submission of an Application for a Land Exchange for 
Development of Land within Hung Shui Kiu /Ha Tsuen New Development Area 
 
A. 
Information / Documents that must be submitted1 : 
 
(i) 
 
A detailed application letter clearly identifying the property2 
concerned, the variations being sought in respect of any terms and 
conditions of the existing lease conditions including the modification 
of any restrictions and development parameters included in the 
existing lease conditions (e.g. proposed user, maximum gross floor 
area, site coverage, number of storeys/building height, etc.)  
 
 
 
(ii) 
A copy of an up-to-date location / site plan on an appropriate scale 
(normally 1:1000) showing the property. 
 
 
 
(iii) 
A copy of the Town Planning Board approval letter for the proposed 
uses or development, if applicable.   
 
 
(iv) 
A copy of computer printout (either hard copy or soft copy) containing 
the current ownership particulars of the property.  
 
 
(v) 
If submitted by an agent, a written authorization from the principal 
who should be the registered owner or a prospective purchaser3 of the 
property.  
 
 
(vi) 
If submitted by a prospective purchaser3, a written consent from the 
registered owner.  
 
 
(vii) 
If submitted by an individual applicant, a written confirmation that he 
has read and understood the Note on Use of Personal Information 
Required in the Application at Appendix II and that he consents to 
disclosure of his personal data to other Government bureaux or 
departments for the purpose of considering and processing his 
application.  
 
 
 
B. 
Information / Documents that will facilitate the processing of the  
 
Application: 
 
 
 
(viii) 
 
 
An extract copy of the relevant Outline Zoning Plan (together with 
the explanatory notes, as appropriate) showing the property.  
 
 
 
(ix) 
For application involving portion(s) of a lot, or sub-divisions of any 
lots, to help expedite the verification of site areas and site boundaries, 
all relevant assignment plans or Deed Poll plans should be provided 
together with any relevant information relating to the delineation of 
the boundaries of these sub-divisions.  
 
 
(x) 
Sketch plans illustrating the proposed development, if available.  
 
 
Appendix I 

----- page 6/9 -----
 
2 
(xi) 
Copies of any approved submissions by other relevant authorities 
relating to the development proposal or other relevant study 
assessment reports, if available (e.g. Approved Master Layout Plans 
under the Town Planning Ordinance, Environmental / Traffic / 
Drainage Impact Assessment Reports etc.)  
 
 
(xii) 
A schedule showing the details of any existing occupants on the lots 
to be surrendered including the name and number of occupants, nature 
of occupation, length of occupation and any tenancy agreement. 
 
 
(xiii) 
A schedule showing the details of all occupants on the lots to be 
surrendered as at 13 April 2017 or thereafter but have subsequently 
moved out including the name and number of such occupants, nature 
of occupation, length of occupation and any tenancy agreement. 
 
 
(xiv) 
A proposed development programme for the proposed development.  
 
 
(xv) 
To facilitate timely determination by LandsD of whether the 90% 
threshold of private land within designated development site is 
fulfilled, the applicant may provide to LandsD the submission and 
documents prepared by an Authorised Land Surveyor4 showing (a) 
the areas (plan area) and boundaries of the lots to be wholly / partially 
surrendered; and (b) the areas (plan area) and boundaries of the 
overall private land within the corresponding designated development 
site5.  
 
 
 
Notes : 
 
1 
Please put a tick in the relevant box if applicable unless otherwise specified; and delete 
as appropriate.  
 
2 
Property includes all lots involved in a land exchange application. 
 
3 
A prospective purchaser is an intending purchaser under an existing Agreement for Sale 
and Purchase registered in the Land Registry.  
 
4 
Authorised Land Surveyor is professional land surveyor registered under Part IV of the 
Land Survey Ordinance (Cap 473). The list of practising authorised land surveyor is 
available at: https://www.landsd.gov.hk/en/survey-mapping/authority/als.html 
 
5 
The submission and documents should be submitted alongside the submission of the land 
exchange application.  Otherwise, LandsD will simply base on the information known 
to the department and consider whether the 90% threshold could be fulfilled.  LandsD 
reserves the right to require the applicant to provide additional supporting documents to 
facilitate processing and the applicant shall provide such documents within such time as 
required by LandsD. 
 

----- page 7/9 -----
Appendix II 
 
Note on Use of Personal Information Required in the Application 
 
Purpose of Collection 
The personal data provided in application pursuant to this 
Practice Note and Appendix I will be used by the Lands 
Department for the purpose of considering and processing the 
application.  The provision of the personal data is obligatory. 
If you do not provide the personal data, the Lands Department 
may not be able to process your application. 
 
 
Class of Transferees 
The personal data you provided may be disclosed to other 
Government bureaux / departments for the purpose mentioned 
above. 
 
 
Access to Personal Data 
The individual who is the subject of the personal data has a right 
of access and correction with respect to personal data as 
provided for in Sections 18 and 22 and Principle 6 of Schedule 
1 of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance.  Such right of 
access includes the right to obtain a copy of the personal data 
provided upon payment of the applicable charge. 
 
 
Enquiries 
Enquiries concerning the personal data collected, including the 
request for access and corrections, should be addressed to: 
 
 
Departmental Personal Data Controlling 
 Officer of the Lands Department 
 
20/F., North Point Government Offices 
 
333 Java Road, North Point 
 
Hong Kong  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

----- page 8/9 -----
 
 
1 
 
Specific Criteria for Consideration of Applications for Lease Modification 
including Land Exchange for Development of Land 
in Hung Shui Kiu /Ha Tsuen New Development Area 
 
1. 
Confinement within the designated development sites – the surrender of lots for 
land exchange will be confined to private lots lying within the relevant designated 
development site mentioned in paragraph 3 of PN No. 1/2024 and shown on the 
Reference Plan.  Surrender of lot(s) lying outside the designated development site 
will not normally be accepted. 
2. 
Ownership, Size and Configuration – all private lots to be surrendered should be 
under the ownership of a single owner or joint venture owners as the Applicant.  
The Surrender Site (i.e. the proposed site to be surrendered) should have an area 
meeting the following criteria – 
(a) for sites earmarked for “Commercial”, “Other Specified Uses” (“OU”) 
annotated “Commercial & Residential” or “OU” annotated “Port Back-up, 
Storage and Workshop Uses” in the Hung Shui Kiu and Ha Tsuen Outline 
Development Plan – not less than the total area of the private land within 
the designated development site concerned, excluding land subject to minor 
adjustment of the development site boundary that will not adversely affect 
the development layout of the site.  The planning intention is to pursue a 
single development for each of these designated development sites.  If the 
Applicant has acquired 90% or more (but less than 100%) of all private land 
within the designated development site, he may apply for the relaxed land 
ownership criterion for his application as per paragraphs 8 to 10 of PN No. 
13/2023 (the Applicant should indicate in his land exchange application if 
he is applying for the relaxed land ownership criterion).  The Re-grant Site 
(i.e. the site to be re-granted in exchange of the Surrender Site if approved) 
shall also conform to the site boundary of the designated development site 
concerned, subject to minor adjustment of the development site boundary 
that would not adversely affect the development layout of the site.  For 
avoidance of doubt, the above does not imply any intention or obligation on 
the part of the Government to make available government land adjoining or 
intervening the private land within the designated development site to 
enable the Re-grant Site to conform to the development site layout of the 
designated development site. 
 
(b) for residential sites – not less than 4 000 m2 (which is a reasonable size to 
achieve a decent residential development with supporting facilities). If the 
Applicant has acquired 90% or more (but less than 100%) of all private land 
within a designated development site and also meets the minimum land 
Appendix III 

----- page 9/9 -----
 
 
2 
 
ownership requirement of 4 000 m2, he may apply for the relaxed land 
ownership criterion for his application as per paragraphs 8 to 10 of PN No. 
13/2023 (the Applicant should indicate in his land exchange application if 
he is applying for the relaxed land ownership criterion).  The application 
site should be reasonably regular in shape with no intervening private lots 
not owned by the Applicant (i.e. lots to be surrendered comprising the 
application site should be contiguous), except for residual lots being sought 
for Government resumption under the relaxed land ownership criterion 
mentioned above.  For application prepared on the basis of meeting the 
minimum size requirement (i.e. not less than 4 000 m2) only without 
including all private land within the designated development site and 
without resort to the relaxed land ownership criterion, the Applicant should 
submit layout plans to demonstrate the feasibility of decent and practical 
development(s) fully utilising the land of the designated development site 
concerned, and the satisfaction of other applicable criteria in this PN. 
 
3. 
Access – the provision of proper vehicular access to the application site is feasible.  
4. 
Compliance with the Outline Zoning Plan – proposed use and development 
parameters of the application site should comply with the relevant Outline Zoning 
Plan. 
5. 
No adverse implications – the proposed development at the application site should 
not cause insurmountable problems to the planning, layout and urban design of the 
surrounding area, and will not jeopardize or hamper the development potential or 
vehicular access of adjacent lands under different ownerships.  
 
