
----- page 1/4 -----
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Self-Certification of Compliance 
New Territories Exempted Houses 
Issue No. 1/2025 
This Practice Note ("PN") sets out the streamlined arrangement of the Lands 
Department ("LandsD") which, in suitable cases, may be adopted for processing applicable 
types of applications for a certificate of compliance and "No Objection to Occupy" Letter in 
respect of New Territories Exempted Houses. 
Applicable types of applications 
2. 
LandsD may by a land document (whether by way of conditions of grant, conditions 
of exchange, building licence or otherwise) ("land document") permit the erection of a village 
house in the New Territories, and the land document contains, amongst others, the following 
prov1s10ns: 
(a) a requirement on the lot owner to erect a building on his lot in the New Territories; 
(b) a restriction on the use of the lot and the building( s) thereon for any purposes other 
than non-industrial purposes; 
(c) a restriction on the carrying out of building works, site formation works or drainage 
works by the lot owner on the lot unless and until he has applied for and obtained from 
the District Lands Officer ("DLO") a Certificate of Exemption ("CoE") or a separate 
CoE in respect of such building works, site formation works or drainage works 
pursuant to the Buildings Ordinance (Application to the New Territories) Ordinance 
(Cap.121); and 
( d) a restriction that no building erected on the lot shall be occupied until the DLO certifies 
in writing that the conditions of the land document have been complied with to the 
satisfaction of the D LO ("Certificate of Compliance"). 
3. 
LandsD may also by an approval letter ("Approval Letter") give permission to a lot 
owner to rebuild a village house on his lot in the New Territories, and the conditions subject to 
which the permission is given include, amongst others, the following: 
(a) a restriction on the use of the building for any purposes other than non-industrial 
purposes; 
(b) a requirement on the lot owner to apply for CoE in respect of building works, site 
formation works or drainage works pursuant to Cap.121 before the commencement of 
I 
the works; and 
(c) a provision that the DLO may issue a "No Objection to Occupy" letter upon request, 

----- page 2/4 -----
- 2 -
provided he is satisfied that the conditions contained in the Approval Letter have been 
complied with ("No Objection to Occupy Letter"). 
4. 
This PN applies to an application for (i) a Certificate of Compliance as referred to in 
paragraph 2(d);, or (ii) a No Objection to Occupy Letter as referred to in paragraph 3(c) 
(thereafter collectively referred to as "CC") whereby a CoE in respect of building works has 
been issued under Cap.121 for the erection of the building1 (such building is referred to in this 
PN as "New Territories Exempted House" or "NTEH"). 
Processing of applications for CC 
5. 
In the normal processing of an application for CC, LandsD will conduct detailed on-
site inspection, full documentary checking and consultation with relevant departments to verify 
whether the relevant obligations and requirements have been complied with ("the conventional 
approach"). 
The Streamlined Arrangement of Self-Certification of Compliance 
6. 
Under the streamlined arrangement, when applying for CC, the lot owner may at his 
own expenses appoint a registered professional 2 ("RP") to prepare and submit a self-
certification of compliance ("SCC"). 
The submission of SCC comprises the following 
requisite documents and information ("the Requisite Documents"): 
(a) Form 1 - Self-Certification of Compliance New Territories Exempted Houses 
at Appendix I together with 
(i) 
the Standard Report on Completed New Territories Exempted House 
(NTEH) Self-Certification of Compliance (SCC) at Appendix II; 
(ii) 
the Construction Completion Report at Appendix III; and 
(iii) 
the computer printout containing the current ownership particular of the lot; 
(b) Form 2 - Owner's Statement regarding Self-Certification of Compliance for 
New Territories Exempted Houses at Appendix IV; and 
( c) such other requisite supporting documents and information as may be required by 
LandsD or the relevant departments, including but not limited to site plan(s), on-
site photos, etc3. 
7. 
When processing the issuance of the land document, Approval Letter or CoE, the D LO 
(in consultation with the relevant departments) may at his absolute discretion decide whether 
1 
Irrespective of whether CoE in respect of site formation works or drainage works have also been issued. 
2 
The term "registered professional" means 
(i) 
a "registered geotechnical engineer" ("RGE"), 
(ii) 
a "registered structural engineer" ("RSE"), 
(iii) 
a "registered professional engineer" ("RPE") in the discipline relevant to the matters he is certifying; 
or 
(iv) 
an "authorized person" ("AP") 
as defined in the Buildings Ordinance (Cap. 123) (Note: "authorized person" is defined in section 2(1) of 
Cap.123 to mean a person whose name is on the authorized persons' register kept under section 3(1) of Cap. 
123 _:_ (i) as an architect, (ii) as an engineer, or (iii) as a surveyor). To ensure impartial and independent 
checking, the RP appointed to prepare and submit the SCC should not be or affiliated with the person submitting 
the Construction Completion Report at Appendix III (i.e. Forms CE/4 and CE/5). 
3 
The standard forms attached to this PN cater for NTEHs with usual features. 
If the NTEH has non-
conventional features that are not stated in the standard forms, the lot owners or the RP are advised to seek 
preliminary advice from the relevant DLO before submitting an application for CC. 

----- page 3/4 -----
- 3 -
the case is suitable for processing the application for CC under the streamlined arrangement. 
Where the DLO decides that the case is not suitable for processing an application for CC under 
the streamlined arrangement, the DLO will upon the issuance of the land document, Approval 
Letter or CoE ( as the case may be) inform the lot owner that the application for CC in question 
may only be processed under the conventional approach. 
Processing of application for CC by way of SCC 
8. 
The relevant DLO will determine whether an application for CC submitted under the 
streamlined arrangement is valid within 2 weeks from the date of receipt of all the Requisite 
Documents. 
For a valid application, the relevant DLO will proceed with departmental 
circulation and on-site inspection in parallel.4 
In the event that an application is invalidated 
( e.g. if the RP is not listed on the relevant register kept or maintained under Cap.123 or the 
Engineers Registration Ordinance (Cap. 409)), the application for CC will be processed under 
the conventional approach and the applicant will be informed accordingly. 
9. 
Priority will be given to the processing of applicatioD.s for CC under the streamlined 
arrangement and on-site checking by the relevant DLO and technical departments will be 
streamlined. 
LandsD targets to complete the processing within 10 weeks from the date of 
receipt of all the Requisite Documents. 
The relevant DLO will either issue a CC or a letter 
advising the applicant why a CC cannot be issued with reasons. 
10. 
LandsD will select cases for audit checking5 to verify the information concerning the 
completed NTEH, including but not limited to the development parameters, building or 
technical specifications, and installations certified by the RP in the SCC. 
If a case has been 
selected for audit checking, the relevant DLO will inform the applicant accordingly, and the 
time frame for completing the processing of the application for CC will be extended to 14 weeks 
from the date of receipt of all the Requisite Documents. 
11. 
An applicant whose application for CC was submitted prior to the promulgation of this 
PN may opt to have his application processed under the streamlined arrangement. 
The 
applicant shall first check with the relevant DLO on the status of processing of his appl1cation, 
and ifhe decides to opt for adopting the streamlined arrangement, he shall inform the relevant 
DLO in writing of his decision. 
The relevant DLO will withhold the processing of the 
application for CC pending the receipt of all the Requisite Documents. 
After the DLO makes · 
the determination that .the case is suitable for processing under the streamlined arrangement, 
the processing of the application will be accorded priority same as other applications being 
processed under the streamlined arrangement, and the order of priority would be based on the 
actual date of receipt of all the Requisite Documents. 
Irregularities discovered subsequent to the issue of CC 
12. 
The issuance of CC under the streamlined arrangement shall not in any way prejudice 
the rights of the Government to take any types of enforcement action (whether in relation to the 
land document, the Approval Letter, the NTEH, the application for CC or otherwise) at any 
time. 
Without prejudice to the generality of the aforesaid, the Government reserves its rights 
to take such action as it considers appropriate in the event of breach or non-compliance with 
the requirements for the SCC, or the discovery of irregularities concerning or relating to an 
application for CC by SCC (e.g. any misconduct on the part of the RP in submitting the SCC), 
including but not limited to referring the matter to the Building Authority, the relevant 
professional bodies and/or other enforcement authorities for investigation and further action. 
4 
No separate notification will be given to the applicant or RP if the application is determined to be valid. 
5 
DLO will process the selected case by the conventional approach. 

----- page 4/4 -----
- 4 -
Pilot Scheme to be implemented by the District Lands Office, Yuen Long 
13. 
The streamlined arrangement will first be implemented as a pilot scheme by the 
District Lands Office, Yuen Long for 9 months with immediate effect. 
LandsD will review 
the implementation of the pilot scheme and may refine the arrangement having regard to the 
experience, feedback and manpower capacity of the relevant departments and the industry 
professions, and thereafter consider expanding the implementation to more applicable districts 
in phases. 
14. 
Nothing in this PN shall in any way fetter or affect or prejudice the Government's rights 
as lessor or landlord, the rights of the Director of Lands under Cap.121 or the rights of the 
Government, the Director of Lands and their officers under any documents relating to the 
application for CC or the NTEH, and all such rights are hereby reserved. 
Nothing in this PN, 
including any words and expressions used shall in any way be construed as any variation or 
waiver of any provisions under the relevant lease or affect or bind the Government in relation 
to the interpretation or enforcement of the terms and conditions of the . relevant lease or 
otherwise. 
All rights to modify the whole or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. 
,, .. --
(Maurice LOO) 
Director of Lands 
23 January 2025 
