
----- page 1/9 -----
1 
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note  
 
 
   
Issue No. 13/2023 
 
 
New Arrangements for 
Applications for Lease Modification including Land Exchange 
under the “Enhanced Conventional New Town Approach” 
 
 
 
To take the lead in implementing the New Development Areas (“NDAs”) while 
capitalising on the private sector to speed up development through land exchange, the 
Government has adopted the “Enhanced Conventional New Town Approach” (“ECNTA”) for 
the Kwu Tung North (“KTN”) and Fanling North (“FLN”) NDA.  Under this government-led 
development approach, the Government, as a general principle, resumes and clears all the 
private land planned for developments within an NDA, and allocates the resumed land for 
various purposes, including disposal of land for private developments.  Prior to the resumption 
and clearance of private land, however, the Government allows lease modifications including 
land exchange (collectively “land exchange”) from private lot owners for sites earmarked for 
private developments if they meet prescribed criteria and conditions.  If the land exchange 
application falls through, the private land will be resumed by the Government and disposed of 
through public tender or other means.   
 
2. 
 
To further facilitate the implementation of NDAs, the Government has decided 
to extend ECNTA to all NDAs and modify the implementation details of ECNTA. This Practice 
Note (“PN”) sets out the general application requirements and new arrangements for land 
exchange applications under the ECNTA.   
 
Application Requirements 
 
3. 
 
Land exchange under the ECNTA is only applicable to sites earmarked for 
private developments within an NDA.  Prior to the resumption and clearance of private land 
for implementing an NDA, the Lands Department (“LandsD”) will announce the specific sites 
that are open for application for land exchange (“designated development sites”) at an 
opportune time.  With  immediate effect, the designated development sites will be broadened 
to include not only residential and commercial sites, but also sites earmarked for other uses, 
such as land for development of industries and privately-run community or welfare facilities, 
as considered appropriate by the Government.  LandsD will announce the locations and 
boundaries of these designated development sites by subsequent PNs, and reference plans will 
be uploaded onto LandsD’s website.  Given the different development progress of NDAs, the 
timing for such announcement varies among them.   
 
4. 
 
Owner(s) of private lot(s) falling within the designated development sites 
(“Applicant”) may apply to LandsD for a land exchange for development of the private lot(s) 
for the purposes as permitted under the relevant statutory town plan(s) or the Town Planning 

----- page 2/9 -----
2 
Board or as advised by the Government.  The merits of any application received will be 
considered according to the general criteria in Appendix I.  Applicant will be informed in 
writing whether or not the application has been accepted for further processing.  Approval of 
the application is also subject to fulfilment of the land administration criteria as set out in 
Appendix II and relevant PNs. 
 
5. 
 
Applicant should note that LandsD will publish on its website general 
information about the applications accepted for further processing, including a plan showing 
the boundaries of the private lot(s) involved in an application.  Occupant(s) on the concerned 
private lot(s) will also be notified. 
 
6. 
 
If an application is approved by LandsD, it will be subject to such terms and 
conditions, including payment of a premium, as may be imposed or required by LandsD.  As 
announced by the Government in March 2022, the use of standard rates for premium 
assessment would be offered as an option to the Applicant.  The applicable standard rates for 
each NDA are to be announced via separate PNs around the time when lease modification 
applications are invited for the NDA in question.  Besides, under certain circumstances 
(including but not limited to the application of the relaxed land ownership criterion in paragraph 
9 below), such terms and conditions may also include the requirement to construct public 
facilities in the relevant NDA in such manner with such materials and to such standards as may 
be required by the Government in its absolute discretion and specified in the land grant 
documents.  These public facilities may include but not limit to public transport interchanges, 
roads, open space or welfare/recreational facilities.  If the Government in its absolute discretion 
considers it appropriate, the construction cost of the public facilities may be premium 
deductible.  The public facilities and their standards required for construction by the Applicant 
and the associated construction cost for premium deduction (if applicable) will be determined 
by the relevant Government departments and their determination shall be final and binding on 
the Applicant.  
 
Specific Points to Note 
 
Relaxed Land Ownership Criterion 
 
7. 
 As one of the general criteria, the private lot(s) owned by the Applicant to be 
surrendered for land exchange will be subject to a minimum size, in order to ensure that the 
proposed development would be of a reasonable scale and accord with Government’s planning 
intention.  Such size requirement will be determined by the Government as appropriate, and 
may vary among different designated development sites and among different NDAs (i.e. the 
requirement in paragraph 3 of Appendix I). 
 
8. 
Subject to meeting the minimum size requirement as well as other necessary 
criteria, to further optimise land potential and enable a more integrated development layout in 
an NDA, if the Applicant has acquired 90% or more of all private land within a designated 
development site, he may opt to apply for a relaxed land ownership criterion (“relaxed land 
ownership criterion”) to his application for land exchange.  For any application accepted under 
the relaxed land ownership criterion, the Government may resume all the remaining private 
land within a designated development site for granting to the Applicant to develop the entire 
designated development site.  It shall be at the absolute discretion of the Government to 
consider whether to grant any resumed private land within a designated development site to the 
Applicant. 
 

----- page 3/9 -----
3 
9. 
 
As a condition for opting for the relaxed land ownership criterion, the Applicant 
shall be required to construct public facilities in the relevant NDA.  As stated in paragraph 6 
above, such terms and conditions, including the public facilities and their standards required 
for construction by the Applicant and the associated construction cost for premium deduction 
(if applicable), will be determined by the relevant Government departments and their 
determination shall be final and binding on the Applicant.  
 
10. 
If the Applicant has opted for the relaxed land ownership criterion and the 
application has been accepted and the Government decides to resume the remaining private 
land within the designated development site, the resumed land would be granted to the 
Applicant through a 2-stage land grant process or such other land grant process as LandsD shall 
in its absolute discretion decide.  The 2-stage land grant process is outlined below : 
 
(i) 
Stage one – surrender of all private land owned by the Applicant within a 
designated development site to the Government, in exchange for the grant of a 
new lot comprising the Applicant’s land and Government land (if any) (“the 
Initial Land Grant”), subject to the payment of land premium (“the Initial 
Premium”).  The Initial Premium to be charged for the new lot would reflect a 
pro-rata value of the current market value of the whole designated development 
site, to be assessed at the time the binding basic terms offer (“BBTO”) of the 
Initial Land Grant is issued.  The Applicant shall be required, at the time of 
accepting the BBTO of the Initial Land Grant, to enter into an agreement with 
the Government agreeing and undertaking to take up and develop the remaining 
private land within the designated development site after resumption of the land 
by the Government (“the Agreement”).  The Agreement shall be in such form 
and contain such terms and conditions as LandsD shall in its absolute discretion 
decide.  Contemporaneous with signing of the Agreement, the Applicant shall 
pay an upfront deposit equivalent to the difference in value between the current 
market value of the whole designated development site to be assessed at the time 
the BBTO is issued and the Initial Premium.  
 
(ii) 
Stage two – after resumption of the remaining private land within the designated 
development site (“the resumed land”), the resumed land would be granted to 
the Applicant or (if the Government decides in its absolute discretion) the 
Applicant would be required to surrender the land granted under the Initial Land 
Grant in exchange for a grant of a new lot comprising the surrendered land and 
the resumed land (“the Complete Land Grant”), subject to the payment of a 
further premium (“the Top-Up Premium”) or (as the case may be) with a 
partial refund by Government of the upfront deposit paid for the Agreement, 
to reflect the difference in value for the resumed land between the upfront 
deposit and the pro-rata value of the current market value of the whole 
designated development site, to be assessed by LandsD at the time the BBTO of 
the Complete Land Grant is issued, of which assessment shall be binding on the 
Applicant.  Any Top-up Premium shall be payable upon the Applicant accepting 
the BBTO of the Complete Land Grant, while any partial refund of the upfront 
deposit will be arranged by Government without interest within 30 days upon 
completion of the Complete Land Grant.  
 
(iii) The form of land grant documents to be adopted for the 2-stage land grant 
process (or such other land grant process as LandsD shall decide) and the terms 

----- page 4/9 -----
4 
and conditions contained in them shall be determined by the Government whose 
determination shall be binding on the Applicant. 
 
Comparable Compensation or Rehousing Offer(s) 
 
11. 
 
As a general requirement, the Applicant should demonstrate that all eligible 
occupant(s) affected by a proposed land exchange (i.e. occupants occupying the private lot(s) 
to be surrendered as at the date when LandsD conducts a pre-clearance survey or thereafter) 
have accepted the Applicant’s offer or offers of compensation or rehousing (“the Offer(s)”) 
that are comparable to one that would have been offered by the Government to the occupants 
concerned had the private land been resumed and cleared by the Government (i.e. the 
requirement in paragraph 2 of Appendix II).  
 
12. 
 
To address the concern of the occupant(s) of the private lot(s) to be surrendered 
who may wish to receive the Government’s compensation or rehousing arrangement, with 
immediate effect, the Government will allow eligible occupant(s) affected by a land exchange 
to opt for the Government’s provision of compensation and rehousing arrangement.  In the 
event that an eligible occupant affected by a land exchange application has applied for and 
accepted the Government’s compensation or rehousing arrangement, the Applicant is required 
to reimburse the Government against all the costs so paid or incurred by the Government for 
the compensation or rehousing arrangement of the occupant.  The costs will be assessed on a 
cost-recovery basis, comprising the amount of compensation paid and/or the cash value of the 
rehousing element based on the market value of the land and the construction cost of a 
comparable rehousing unit, and the administrative cost.  When determining the costs of the 
rehousing arrangement provided to the occupant, the Government will use a non-means-tested 
subsidised sale flat in a dedicated rehousing estate as the cost assessment basis, irrespective of 
the actual rehousing option chosen by the occupant in a particular case.  This is to simplify the 
cost assessment process, enhance certainty on the cost to be charged, and incentivise land 
exchange applicants to provide a package to occupants on par with the Government’s best 
option.  The amount will be required to be reimbursed to Government in conjunction with the 
land premium for the proposed land exchange.  
 
13.  
 
The Government will implement the policy intent in paragraphs 11 and 12 by 
the following procedures :    
 
(i) 
Before a BBTO is issued for a proposed land exchange, the Applicant is required 
to demonstrate that all eligible occupants affected by the proposed land 
exchange have accepted the Offer(s) made by the Applicant as referred to in 
paragraph 11, e.g. an acknowledgment signed by the eligible occupant 
signifying his acceptance of the Offer(s) (save for those occupants who have 
opted for and accepted Government’s compensation or rehousing arrangement 
as referred to in paragraph 12). 
 
(ii) 
Where the acceptance as mentioned in (i) above has not yet been secured despite 
the Applicant having made the Offer(s), or where the securing of acceptance is 
not practicable due to difficulties encountered by the Applicant in locating and 
making the Offer(s) to the eligible occupants, the Applicant should submit an 
undertaking to the Government in all respects to the satisfaction of LandsD for 
each such eligible occupant (“the Undertaking”), in which the Applicant will :  
 
(a) 
confirm that the Offer(s) have been made by the Applicant to the eligible 

----- page 5/9 -----
5 
occupant or, in case of difficulties encountered by the Applicant in 
locating the eligible occupant, undertake that the Offer(s) shall be made 
by the Applicant to the eligible occupant forthwith when the eligible 
occupant is located;  
 
(b) 
undertake to keep the Offer(s) open for acceptance by the eligible 
occupant until the eligible occupant’s acceptance of the Offer(s) or any 
further offers meeting the comparability requirement in paragraph 2 of 
Appendix II shall have been obtained, or until the occupant has opted for 
and accepted the Government’s compensation or rehousing arrangement, 
within 3 years from the execution of the land exchange application; and  
 
(c) 
undertake to reimburse the Government forthwith all the costs (including 
the compensation paid and/or cash value of the rehousing element and 
administrative cost to be assessed by the Government in accordance with 
paragraph 12, whose assessment shall be final and binding on the 
Applicant) which shall have been incurred or paid by the Government to 
the eligible occupant in case the eligible occupant has or shall have opted 
for and at any time accept the Government’s compensation or rehousing 
arrangement (“the Reimbursement Sum”). 
 
(iii) 
For securing the Applicant’s performance of the Undertaking, he should deposit 
with the Government upon execution of the Undertaking an amount equivalent 
to all the costs which would be incurred or payable by the Government to the 
eligible occupant in case the occupant concerned shall accept the Government’s 
compensation or rehousing arrangement.  The amount of the deposit to be paid 
will be assessed by the Government whose assessment shall be final and binding 
on the Applicant.  In case the eligible occupant shall at any time1 accept the 
Government’s compensation or rehousing arrangement, the Government shall 
have the right to deduct the Reimbursement Sum directly from the deposit. 
 
(iv) 
The Applicant may apply to the Government for consent to release the 
Undertaking and refund of the deposit (without interest) under any of the 
following situations, which consent may be given on such terms and conditions 
as the Government sees fit or be refused at the Government’s absolute discretion :  
 
(a) 
the eligible occupant’s acceptance to the Offer(s) or any further offers 
meeting the comparability requirement in paragraph 2 of Appendix II 
shall have been obtained with documentary evidence provided to the 
Government to demonstrate such acceptance;  
 
(b) 
for cases where the eligible occupant shall accept the Government’s 
compensation or rehousing arrangement, the reimbursement as mentioned 
above shall have been fully settled by the Applicant; or 
 
(c) 
3 years have lapsed from the time that the land exchange application is 
executed. 
 
(v) 
In addition, before a BBTO is issued for the proposed land exchange, the 
                                                 
1  Including the time after execution of the land exchange, if approved, provided that the acceptance is within 3 
years from the execution of the land exchange application. 

----- page 6/9 -----
6 
Applicant should submit documentary evidence to prove that actual vacant 
possession of the private lot(s) to be surrendered for the land exchange has been 
or will be secured by a reasonable timing, to which LandsD shall decide in its 
absolute discretion on whether the requirement is considered fulfilled. 
 
14. 
 
The Applicant should further note that, notwithstanding the acceptance of the 
provisional basic terms offer, the proposed land exchange will not be further processed until 
and unless the requirements stated in paragraph 13 above have been complied with. 
 
 
Time Limit 
 
15. 
 
All land exchange applications received and processed under the ECNTA will 
be subject to a specific time limit, including a deadline for submission of applications and 
another deadline for the acceptance of the BBTO (with premium).  The deadlines will be 
determined by the Government with reference to the Government’s land resumption 
programme for the relevant NDA, which is final and non-negotiable.  Late applications will 
not be considered.  Any accepted applications will also cease to be processed if a BBTO (with 
premium) cannot be issued and accepted on or before the specified deadline.  The 
administrative fee or any other fee paid will not be refunded upon cessation of processing the 
applications in such circumstances or in any of the circumstances set out in any letter from the 
Government demanding payment of administrative fee.   
 
16. 
 
Lot owners who wish to apply for land exchange under the ECNTA should refer 
to the general application requirements and arrangements detailed in this PN, as well as other 
specific application criteria and conditions applicable to individual NDAs to be announced via 
subsequent PNs.  Lot owners are also advised to engage competent professionals to assist them 
in making the applications. 
 
17. 
 
Please note that LandsD acting in its capacity as private landlord may, at its sole 
and absolute discretion, approve or reject any such application.  This PN shall not constitute 
any representation on the part of the Government or give rise to any expectation on that part of 
the Applicant that any application submitted to LandsD will be processed or approved. 
 
18. 
 
This PN is issued for general reference purposes only.  All rights to modify the 
whole or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
( Andrew LAI ) 
Director of Lands 
28 December 2023 
 
 
 

----- page 7/9 -----
Appendix I 
 
General Criteria for Consideration of  
Applications for Lease Modification including Land Exchange 
under the “Enhanced Conventional New Town Approach” 
1. 
Location – confined to sites planned for private developments in a New Development 
Area (“NDA”).  The private development sites that may be open for application for land 
exchange (“designated development sites) will be determined by the Government as 
appropriate, which may include sites earmarked for private residential, commercial, 
industry, community, welfare or other land uses. 
2. 
Confinement within the planned private development site – only surrender of private 
lot(s) lying within a designated development site in an NDA will be considered.  
Surrender of lot(s) lying outside the designated development site will not normally be 
accepted. 
3. 
Size and ownership – the private lot(s) to be surrendered will be subject to a minimum 
size, in order to ensure that the proposed development would be of reasonable scale and 
accord with the Government’s planning intention.  Such size requirement will be 
determined by the Government as appropriate, and may vary among different designated 
development sites and among different NDAs.  All private lots contained therein should 
be under the ownership of a single owner or joint venture owners as the applicant.  
4. 
Configuration – the application site should be reasonably regular in shape.  Private lot(s) 
to be surrendered comprising the application site should be contiguous and fragmented 
lots will not be accepted. 
5. 
Compliance with the relevant Outline Zoning Plan(s) / Outline Development Plan(s) 
/ other plan(s) as specified by the Government – proposed use and development 
parameters of the application site should comply with the relevant Outline Zoning Plan(s), 
Outline Development Plan(s) or other plan(s) as specified by the Government. 
6. 
Access – the provision of proper vehicular access to the application site is feasible.  
7. 
No adverse implications – the proposed development at the application site should not 
cause insurmountable problems to the planning, layout and urban design of the 
surrounding area, and will not jeopardize or hamper the development potential or 
vehicular access of adjacent lands under different ownership.  For application prepared 
on the basis of meeting the minimum size requirement (see paragraph 3 above), 
submission of layout plan is required to demonstrate the feasibility of decent and practical 
development(s) fully utilising the land of the designated development site, without 
resulting in any loss of the development potential as planned. 

----- page 8/9 -----
Appendix II 
1 
Requirements for Processing Applications 
for Lease Modification including Land Exchange  
under the “Enhanced Conventional New Town Approach”   
1. 
Unification, proof of land titles and vacant possession – application may be 
submitted by a single owner or joint venture with unified land titles.  Private lot(s) to 
be surrendered should be subject to vacant possession by a specified deadline (or will 
be secured by a reasonable timing) and free from encumbrances before execution of 
the lease modification / land exchange if the application is approved. 
 
2. 
Comparable compensation or rehousing package – the lot owner(s) as the applicant 
should demonstrate that all eligible occupant(s) affected by a proposed land exchange 
(i.e.  occupants occupying the private lot(s) to be surrendered as at the date when the 
Lands Department conducts a pre-clearance survey or thereafter) have accepted the 
compensation or rehousing offer(s) from the applicant (save for those occupants who 
have accepted Government’s compensation or rehousing arrangement, see paragraph 3 
below).  In the case of compensation offer(s) made by the applicant, it should be the 
prevailing monetary ex-gratia compensation that would have been offered by the 
Government to eligible occupants had the private land been resumed and cleared by 
Government under the New Development Areas development.  In the case of rehousing 
offer(s) made by the applicant, it should be comparable to the prevailing non-means 
tested rehousing that would have been offered by the Government to eligible occupants 
had the private land been resumed and cleared by Government under the New 
Development Areas development.  As set out in the paper issued to the Legislative 
Council in May 2018, this comparable rehousing element may take the form of 
comparable rehousing in kind (e.g. accommodation charged at the rental level for a 
non-means tested rental unit) or cash-equivalent of such rehousing element.  
Compensation or rehousing to eligible occupant(s) provided by the applicant in 
securing fulfilment of this requirement is not a premium-deductible item.  The offer 
and acceptance of such a comparable package is a matter between the applicant and the 
eligible occupant(s).  The Government would deem the case as settled if the applicant 
is able to deliver documentary evidence indicating that the eligible occupant(s) have 
accepted the compensation or rehousing package offered by the applicant. 
  
3. 
Reimbursing the Government with compensation and/or rehousing costs – In case 
the eligible occupants have opted for and accepted the Government’s compensation or 
rehousing arrangement, the applicant shall reimburse the Government with all the costs 
paid or incurred, including the cash value of the rehousing element and administrative 
cost, to be assessed by the Government whose assessment shall be final and binding on 
the applicant.  The amount will be required to be reimbursed to the Government in 
conjunction with the land premium for the lease modification including land exchange.  
 
   
4. 
Time limit – the lease modification/ land exchange application (if approved) has to be 
concluded within a specified time period and in any event earlier than the Government’s 
land resumption programme, unless it is extended by the Government at its absolute 
discretion. 

----- page 9/9 -----
Appendix II 
2 
5. 
Government land – the site to be re-granted for a lease modification/land exchange 
application may include adjoining or intervening government land which is incapable 
of reasonable separate alienation or development.  It should be noted that the 
Government would not normally make available government land adjoining or 
intervening the private land within a designated development site to enable the re-grant 
site conforming to the boundaries of the site if the government land is capable of 
reasonable separate alienation or development. 
 
6. 
Compliance with other general lease modification/land exchange application criteria 
and requirements (as may be revised) promulgated by the Lands Department from time 
to time.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
