
----- page 1/5 -----
i1ij] 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Incentive Scheme to Encourage Provision of 
Issue No. 10/2023 
Residential Care Homes for Persons with Disabilities in New Private Developments 
In pursuance of a policy initiative in the 2023-24 Budget and the 2023 Policy 
Address, an incentive scheme will be introduced to encourage the provision ofresidential care 
homes for persons with disabilities ("RCHD") in new private developments 1. 
2. 
A time-limited pilot arrangement will be introduced from 20 December 2023 to 19 
December 2026 ("the Pilot Period"). During the Pilot Period, LandsD may grant the following 
concessions ·(collectively "the Time-Limited Concessions") upon applications from the 
developers: 
4 
(i) 
exempt one or more eligible RCHD premises2 with a size not exceeding a 
maximum total gross floor area ("GFA")3 of 12,000m2 or 10% of the total 
permissible GF A .under lease4, whichever is the greater, per development 
project from payment ofland premium in respect oflease modifications, land 
exchanges and private treaty grants for new private developments ("the Land 
Transactions"); and 
Industrial developments are excluded. Addition to or alteration or conversion of existing building(s) will not 
be considered as constituting a new private development. 
To become eligible, the RCHD premises has to comply with the Town Planning Ordinance (Cap. 131) 
("TPO") and the Buildings Ordinance (Cap. 123) ("BO"), among others. Planning application under section 
l 2A or section 16, as appropriate, of the TPO is required if the proposed RCHD is not always permitted 
and/or has resulted in exceedance of the maximum plot ratio/GF A/building height permissible under the 
Notes of the respective Outline Zoning Plan ("OZP"). The Town Planning Board will consider each. 
application based on individual merits of the case. RCBD in private development is GFA accountable under 
the Building (Planning) Regulations. During the Pilot Period, the Building Authority is prepared to grant 
modification to permit a higher plot ratio/GFA to accommodate the additional GFA of the RCHD in the 
development site under the BO taking into account the Planning Department ("PlanD")'s advice on the 
planning intention as well as whether the provisions and requirements under the OZP or planning approval 
have been complied with when processing the general building plans. 
General guideline on the calculation of GF A for RCHD premises is set out at Annex. 
All references to "lease" in this Practice Note shall include Government Lease or Conditions of Grant I Sale 
I Exchange, as the case may be. 

----- page 2/5 -----
- 2 -
(ii) 
exempt eligible RCHD premises from the calculation of total permissible 
GF A under lease. 
3. 
Applications for the Time-Limited Concessions received after the Pilot Period 
will not be considered. 
4. 
After the expiry of the Pilot Period on 19 December 2026, developers in the Land 
Transactions may apply for concession to exempt one eligible RCHD premises with a size 
not exceeding a maximum total GF A of 5,400m2 per development project from payment of 
land premium ("the Concession"). The Concession does not include exemption of GF A of 
the eligible RCHD premises from the total permissible GF A under lease. 
5. 
To be eligible for the Time-Limited Concessions or the Concession, the proposed 
RCHD premises must have the support of the Social Welfare Department ("SWD"). The 
Time-Limited Concessions or the Concession, if granted, will be subject to the following 
conditions:-
(i) 
The size and location of the RCHD premises will have to be approved by 
SWD. No sub-division of the RCHD premises will be allowed and 
assignment, mortgage, underletting, or other. disposal of the RCHD 
premises will be prohibited except as a whole unit; 
(ii) 
Provision of the RCHD premises must comply with all requirements as 
may be imposed by SWD and all applicable ordinances, by-laws or 
regulations that are in force from time to time; 
(iii) 
Throughout the term under lease, the RCHD premises shall be managed 
and operated as licensed RCHD(s) under the Residential Care Homes 
(Persons . with Disabilities) Ordinance (Cap. 613) and its subsidiary 
legislation and to the satisfaction of SWD; and 
(iv) 
The above requirements shall be stipulated as conditions under lease, as 
appropriate. 
6. 
Subject to the above and the approval ofSWD, developers will be allowed to either 
lease or sell each completed RCHD premises as a whole unit or operate the RCHD concerned 
by themselves. However, any unauthorized change of use or leaving the RCHD premises 
vacant for a period in excess of 12 months as identified by SWD may render the premises liable 

----- page 3/5 -----
- 3 -
for enforcement actions under the lease conditions, including re-entry proceedings and the 
taking of possession of the RCHD premises by the Government without compensation. 
7. 
Interested parties should also refer to the Guidance Note on this subject released by 
SWD on its website in December 2023. 
8. 
Each application submitted to LandsD pursuant to this Practice Note ("PN") will be 
considered on its OWn merits by LandsD at its absolute discretion acting in its capacity as a 
landlord. This PN shall not constitute any representation on the part of the Government or 
other authorities or give rise to any expectation on the part of the applicant that any application 
submitted to LandsD will be processed or approved. 
9. 
This PN is issued for general reference purposes only. All rights to modify the 
whole or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. 
( Andrew LAI ) 
Director of Lands 
20 December 2023 

----- page 4/5 -----
General Guideline on Calculation of GFA for 
RCHD Premises 
GFA of eligible RCHD premises includes the following areas as illustrated in Figure 1: 
Annex 
(a) 
Areas of RCHD(s) (including the enclosing wall(s) of and structure(s) within the premises) (i.e. 
the areas of RCHD 1 and RCHD 2 - coloured yellow in Figure 1 ); and 
(b) 
Staircases, lift shafts, lobbies and corridors solely serving the RCHD( s) (i.e. the areas of Staircase 
I, Staircase 2, Lift I and Corridor 1 - coloured orange in Figure 1) including horizontal areas of 
such staircases and lift shafts passing through the RCHD floor and serving RCHD only at that 
floor. 
Remarks: 
(1) RCHD's GFA does not include horizontal areas of staircases, lift shafts~ lobbies and corridors 
shared by other uses on the same floor (i.e. the areas of Staircase 3, Staircase 4, Lift 2, Lift 3 and 
Corridor 2 shown in Figure I). 
(2) During the RCHD licensing process under the Residential Care Homes (Persons with Disabilities) 
Ordinance (Cap. 613), the enclosing wall(s) and structure(s) within RCHD(s) are excluded from 
the calculation of area of floor space per resident. 
(3) Plant rooms, car parking spaces, loading and unloading areas of the development may be 
disregarded from GF A calculation according to the prevailing GF A concession mechanism except 
for ( 4) below. 
( 4) Non-mandatory and non-essential plant rooms and horizo.ntal areas of vertical ducts solely serving 
the RCHD are not subject to I 0% overall cap of GFA concession under Practice Note for 
Authorized Persons, Registered Structural Engineers and Registered Geotechnical Engineers APP-
151 issued by the Buildings Department ("BD"). 
(5) PlanD and LandsD will rely on BD's verified computation of GFA for the RCHD(s) as shown on 
the general building plans when exercising their authority to check compliance with the 
requirements/conditions imposed under their respective regimes. 
(6) This Guideline provides general guidance on the computation of GFA for the purposes of this 
Practice Note. Whether any areas will be included or omitted from the calculation of GFA for 
RCHD premises will be considered on a case-by-case basis. 

----- page 5/5 -----
I I 
Lift 1 
Staircase 1 1-----..,= =' 
RCHDI 
Staircase 2 
. 
-
..................................................................................................................................... 
Corridor 1 
............................................................................................................ ~· · · ···· · ·· · ·· ·· ;· · · · ······· · ···· · ·· ·· ;; · · · ··""'L-------l 
RCHD 2 
. I 
11 
Staircase 3 
Corridor 2 
Staircase 4 
Lift 2 
Lift 3 
Shop 
Figure I 
(12/2023) 
