
----- page 1/12 -----
1 
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note  
 
 
   
Issue No. 1/2022 
 
 
Applications for Lease Modification including Land Exchange 
for Development of Land within the Remaining Phase of 
Kwu Tung North and Fanling North New Development Areas 
 
 
With immediate effect, this Practice Note supersedes the Lands Department 
(³LaQdVD´) LaQdV AdPLQLVWUaWLRQ OIILcH (³LAO´) Practice Note Nos. 1/2014, 1/2014A and 
1/2014D. 
 
2. 
The LAO Practice Note No. 1/2014, as varied and supplemented by subsequent 
LAO Practice Notes Nos. 1/2014A and 1/2014D1, set out the application requirements for lease 
modification including land exchange (collectively ³OaQd H[cKaQJH´) IRU VLWHV SOaQQHd IRU 
private developments on the Kwu Tung North Outline Development Plan and Fanling North 
OXWOLQH DHYHORSPHQW POaQ (cROOHcWLYHO\  ³ODPV´).  The distribution of the said sites was shown 
on a reference plan uploaded onto LandsD¶V website.  The ODPs are available for sale at the 
Map Publications Centres and for inspection at the Planning Enquiry Counters of the Planning 
Department.  The aforesaid Practice Notes stated that priority would be given to process those 
land exchange applications involving and falling within sites earmarked for development on 
sites denoted as sites planned for private development in Phase 1 on the said reference plan 
(³Phase 1 development´), and the deadline for application and acceptance of binding basic 
terms offer (with premium) in respect of the Phase 1 sites was on 30 November 2014 and 30 
September 2017 respectively.  The deadlines applicable to sites falling within other 
development phases shown on the reference plan would be promulgated as and when 
determined. 
 
3. 
With the completion of Phase 1 development applications, this Practice Note 
sets out the arrangements in respect of applications for land exchange for sites in the remaining 
phase of the Kwu Tung North New Development Area and Fanling North New Development 
Area (³RHPaiQLQJ PKaVH´) planned for private developments in the ODPs.  The requirements 
set out herein are modelled on those of Phase 1 development applications, with certain 
refinements set out in paragraphs 9, 10(a)(ii)(II) and 13. 
 
Application requirements 
   
4. 
Updated reference plans showing those sites (hatched thereon) open for 
application for land exchange in the Remaining Phase have been uploaded onto LandsD 
website.  Please note that the locations and boundaries of these sites as shown on the said 
reference plans are for illustration only and may be changed or amended as necessary. 
 
                                                 
1  LAO Practice Notes Nos. 1/2014B and 1/2014C were superseded by LAO Practice Note No. 1/2014D. 
 

----- page 2/12 -----
2 
5. 
Owners of private lots falling within the sites in the Remaining Phase as 
mentioned in paragraph 4 above may, from the date of this Practice Note and before the 
prescribed deadline, apply with the LandsD for a land exchange for development of their lots 
for the purposes as permitted under the relevant statutory town plan or as may be permitted by 
WKH TRZQ POaQQLQJ BRaUd (³TPB´).  Lot owners who wish to apply or have applied for such a 
land exchange should refer to this Practice Note and the approved Kwu Tung North Outline 
Zoning Plan No. S/KTN/2 and Fanling North Outline Zoning Plan No. S/FLN/2 (collectively 
³OZPV´) aQd/RU RQ aQ\ VXbVHTXHQW aPHQdPHQW SOaQV WKHUHRI.  Information in respect of the 
OZPs may be obtained from the TPB website: http://www.ozp.tpb.gov.hk/.  Copies of the plans 
are also available for sale at the Map Publications Centres. 
 
6. 
Applications should be submitted to LandsD New Development Area Section 
for the attention of the Chief Estate Surveyor/NDA, which is located in Unit 1501-10, 15/F, 
Landmark North, 39 Lung Sum Avenue, Sheung Shui, New Territories.  Applicant should 
follow the checklist of basic submission requirements in Appendix I in preparing and 
submitting their applications and acknowledge the Note on Use of Personal Information 
Required in the Application in Appendix II for any personal information provided in the 
application.  The merits of applications will be considered according to the General Criteria as 
set out in Appendix III.  Applicant will be informed in writing whether or not their applications 
have been accepted for further processing.  Approval of the applications will be subject to 
fulfilment of the land administration criteria as set out in Appendix IV. 
 
7. 
Applicant should note that LandsD will publish on its website general 
information about the applications accepted for processing, such as a plan showing the 
boundaries of the private land involved in an application.  The occupants on the concerned site 
will also be notified. 
 
Specific points to note 
 
8. 
 As a general requirement, applicant should demonstrate that all eligible 
occupants affected by the proposed land exchange, i.e. individuals occupying the lots to be 
VXUUHQdHUHd aV aW 4 JXO\ 2013 RU WKHUHaIWHU aV UHJLVWHUHd LQ LaQdVD¶V SUH-clearance survey, have 
accepted thH aSSOLcaQW¶s offer or offers of compensation or rehousing2 (³WKH Offer(s)´) that are 
comparable to one that would have been offered by the Government to the occupants concerned 
had the private land been resumed and cleared by the Government (i.e. the requirement in 
paragraph 2 of Appendix IV). 
 
9. 
To address the concerns of occupants affected by the Remaining Phase about 
having to stay in the vicinity of the works areas of Phase 1 development and the breaking up 
of a coherent community, the Government has also allowed occupants affected by the 
Remaining Phase to opt for early departure and surrender of squatter structures on a voluntary 
baVLV LQ UHWXUQ IRU UHcHLYLQJ GRYHUQPHQW¶V HaUO\ SURYLVLRQ RI cRPSHQVaWLRQ aQd UHKRXVLQJ 
package, if eligible, XQdHU WKH ³ScKHPH RQ EaUO\ SXUUHQdHU RI aQd DHSaUWXUH Irom Squatter 
SWUXcWXUHV´ (³WKH EaUO\ DHSaUWXUH ScKHPH´).  In the event that an eligible occupant affected by 
a land exchange application has opted for aQd accHSWHd GRYHUQPHQW¶V cRPSHQVaWLRQ or 
                                                 
2  CRQVHTXHQWLaO WR WKH GRYHUQPHQW¶V HQKaQcHPHQW LQ Ma\ 2018 RI WKH JHQHUaO cRPSHQVaWLRQ aQd UHKRXVLQJ 
arrangements for occupiers affected by Government development clearance exercises (which resulted in the 
introduction of a new non-means-tested rehousing option to eligible occupiers), the criterion on an applicant 
to offer comparable compensation package to eligible occupants (as applied under Phase 1 development 
applications) has been updated to the effect that the package should be a comparable compensation or 
rehousing package.  Further details in paragraph 2 of Appendix IV.    
 

----- page 3/12 -----
3 
rehousing arrangement, WKH aSSOLcaQW¶V RbOLJaWLRQ LQ SaUaJUaSK 8 does not apply to the occupant 
concerned, but the applicant shall reimburse the Government with all the costs so paid or 
incurred by the Government for the compensation or rehousing arrangement3 of the occupant. 
 
10. 
The Government will implement the intent in paragraphs 8 and 9 by the 
following procedures: 
 
(a) 
After LandsD has issued a provisional basic terms offer and before a binding 
basic terms offer is issued for the proposed land exchange, the applicant is 
required: 
 
(i) 
to demonstrate that all eligible occupants affected by the proposed land 
exchange have accepted the Offer(s) made by the applicant as referred 
to in paragraph 8, e.g. an acknowledgment signed by the eligible 
occupant signifying his acceptance of the Offer(s) (save for those 
occupants who have RSWHd IRU aQd accHSWHd GRYHUQPHQW¶V 
compensation or rehousing arrangement under the Early Departure 
Scheme as referred to in paragraph 9); 
 
(ii)   
where the acceptance as mentioned in (i) above has not yet been secured 
despite the applicant having made the Offer(s), or where the securing of 
acceptance is not practicable due to difficulties encountered by the 
applicant in locating and making the Offer(s) to the eligible occupants: 
 
(I) 
to submit an undertaking to the Government in all respects to the 
satisfaction of LandsD for each such eligible occupant (³WKH 
UQdHUWaNLQJ´), in which the applicant will: 
 
(1) 
confirm that the Offer(s) have been made by the 
applicant to the eligible occupant or, in case of 
difficulties encountered by the applicant in locating the 
eligible occupant, undertake that the Offer(s) shall be 
made by the applicant to the eligible occupant forthwith 
when the eligible occupant is located; 
 
(2) 
undertake to keep the Offer(s) open for acceptance by the 
eligible occupant until the eligible RccXSaQW¶V accHSWaQcH 
of the Offer(s) or any further offers meeting the 
comparability requirement in paragraph 2 of Appendix 
IV shall have been obtained, or until the occupant has 
opted for the Early Departure Scheme and accepted the 
GRYHUQPHQW¶V cRPSHQVaWLRQ RU rehousing arrangement, 
within 3 years from the execution of the land exchange 
application; and 
 
(3) 
undertake to reimburse the Government forthwith all the 
costs (including the cash value of the rehousing element 
and administrative cost to be assessed by the Government 
                                                 
3  The costs will be assessed on a cost-recovery basis, comprising the amount of compensation paid and/or the 
cash value of the rehousing element based on the market value of the land and the construction cost of a 
comparable rehousing unit, and the administrative cost. 

----- page 4/12 -----
4 
whose assessment shall be final and binding on the 
applicant) which shall have been incurred or paid by the 
Government to the eligible occupant in case the eligible 
occupant has or shall have opted for the Early Departure 
Scheme aQd VKaOO aW aQ\ WLPH accHSW WKH GRYHUQPHQW¶V 
cRPSHQVaWLRQ 
RU 
UHKRXVLQJ 
aUUaQJHPHQW 
(³WKH 
RHLPbXUVHPHQW SXP´); and  
 
(II) 
for securing WKH aSSOLcaQW¶V performance of the Undertaking, to 
deposit with the Government upon execution of the Undertaking 
an amount equivalent to all the costs (including the cash value of 
the rehousing element and administrative cost) which would be 
incurred or payable by the Government to the eligible occupant 
in case the occupant concerned shall accept the GRYHUQPHQW¶V 
cRPSHQVaWLRQ RU UHKRXVLQJ aUUaQJHPHQW (³WKH DHSRVLW´) under 
the Early Departure Scheme.  The amount of the Deposit to be 
paid will be assessed by the Government whose assessment shall 
be final and binding on the applicant.  In case the eligible 
occupant shall at any time 4 accHSW WKH GRYHUQPHQW¶V 
compensation or rehousing arrangement as mentioned in (I)(3) 
above, the Government shall have the right to deduct the 
Reimbursement Sum directly from the Deposit; and 
 
(iii) 
to submit documentary evidence to prove that actual vacant possession 
of the private land involved has been or will be secured by a reasonable 
timing (having regard to the expectation in paragraph 12 below).  
 
(b) 
The applicant may apply to the Government for consent to release the 
Undertaking and refund of the Deposit (without interest) under any of the 
following situations (which consent may be given on such terms and conditions 
as the Government sees fit or be refused at the GRYHUQPHQW¶V absolute 
discretion): 
 
(i) 
 the eligible RccXSaQW¶V accHSWaQcH WR WKH Offer(s) or any further offers 
meeting the comparability requirement in paragraph 2 of Appendix IV 
shall have been obtained with documentary evidence provided to the 
Government to demonstrate such acceptance; 
 
(ii) 
for cases where the eligible occupant shall accept the GRYHUQPHQW¶V 
compensation or rehousing arrangement, the reimbursement as 
mentioned in (a)(ii)(I)(3) above shall have been fully settled by the 
applicant; or 
 
(iii) 
3 years have lapsed from the time that the land exchange application is 
executed.   
 
                                                 
4   Including the time after execution of the land exchange, if approved, aQd XQWLO WKH GRYHUQPHQW¶V clearance for 
the Remaining Phase project, provided that the acceptance is within 3 years from the execution of the land 
exchange application. 
 

----- page 5/12 -----

----- page 6/12 -----
- 1 - 
 
Appendix I 
 
 
Checklist of Basic Requirements for Submission of an Application for a Land Exchange for 
Development of Land within the Remaining Phase of 
Kwu Tung North and Fanling North New Development Areas 
 
A. 
Information / Documents that must be submitted (1) : 
 
General : 
(i) 
2 copies (2) of a complete set of Government Land Grant documents 
(including all executed lease modification letters and extension letters, 
if any) affecting the property (3). 
 
(ii) 
A copy of an up-to-date location / site plan on an appropriate scale 
(normally 1:1000) showing the property. 
 
(iii) 
2 copies (2) of a computer printout containing the historical and current 
ownership particulars of the property. 
 
(iv) 
(a) If any of the registered owners is a limited company, 2 sets of 
certified true copies of its Certificate of Incorporation, Certificate 
of Change of Name (if applicable) and Notice of Situation of 
Registered Office. For overseas companies, documents equivalent 
to the above should be produced. 
 
(b) If there are any chargees/mortgagees, letter(s) from chargees/ 
mortgagees confirming that they have no objection to / agree to 
enter into the proposed Conditions of Exchange. 
 
(c) In the event of the lot being in multiple ownership and unless 
otherwise consented to by Lands Department, a summary list (in 
duplicate) certified by the solicitor acting for the applicants 
containing 
the 
names 
of 
all 
registered 
owners/chargees/mortgagees/purchasers who have entered into an 
Agreement for Sale and Purchase of a unit or units (“purchasers”) 
(if any) of the property together with details of number of 
undivided shares held by each owner and an undertaking by the 
solicitor to inform the Lands Department of any change in the 
names of the registered owners/chargees/mortgagees/purchasers 
between the date of application up to the date of the Conditions of 
Exchange; 
 
(v) 
A copy of the Town Planning Board approval letter for the proposed 
uses or development, if applicable. 
 
(vi) 
If submitted by an agent, a written authorization from all the 
registered owners and purchasers (if applicable) of the property. 
 
(vii) 
Details of the application clearly identifying the property concerned. 

----- page 7/12 -----
- 2 - 
 
B. 
Information / Documents that will facilitate the processing of the 
application (4) : 
 
(viii) 
A copy of an extract of the relevant Outline Zoning Plan (together 
with the explanatory notes, as appropriate) showing the property. 
 
(ix) 
For an application which involves portion(s) of a lot, or sub-divisions 
of any lots, to assist the verification of site areas and site boundaries, 
all relevant assignment plans or Deed Poll plans should be provided 
together with any relevant information relating to the delineation of 
the boundaries of these sub-divisions. 
 
(x) 
2 sets of sketch plans illustrating the proposed development and the 
development parameters of the proposed development. 
 
(xi) 
A schedule showing the details of any existing occupants on the lots 
to be surrendered including the name and number of occupants, 
nature of occupation, length of occupation and any tenancy  agreement. 
 
(xii) 
A schedule showing the details of all occupants on the lots to be 
surrendered as at 4 July 2013 or thereafter but have subsequently 
moved out including the name and number of such occupants, nature 
of occupation, length of occupation and any tenancy agreement. 
 
(xiii) 
A proposed development programme for the proposed development. 
 
 
 
Notes : 
(1)      Please put a tick in the relevant box if applicable unless otherwise specified; and delete 
as appropriate. 
 
(2)    One set of documents should be certified by the Land Registry or by the solicitor acting 
for the applicant, while the other set may be a photocopy of the certified documents. 
Certification of the documents should be done not more than one month before 
submission of the application. 
(3) 
Property includes all lots involved in a land exchange application. 
(4)  
Any other information or additional information as required may be supplied in 
duplicate on separate sheet(s) attached to the application. 

----- page 8/12 -----
 
Appendix II 
 
 
Note on Use of Personal Information Required in the Application 
 
 
Purpose of Collection 
The personal data provided in application pursuant to this 
Practice Note and Appendix I will be used by the Lands 
Department for the purpose of considering and processing the 
application.  The provision of the personal data is obligatory. 
If you do not provide the personal data, the Lands Department 
may not be able to process your application. 
 
 
Class of Transferees 
The personal data you provided may be disclosed to other 
Government bureaux / departments for the purpose mentioned 
above. 
 
 
Access to Personal Data 
The individual who is the subject of the personal data has a right 
of access and correction with respect to personal data as 
provided for in Sections 18 and 22 and Principle 6 of Schedule 
1 of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance. Such right of access 
includes the right to obtain a copy of the personal data provided 
upon payment of the applicable charge. 
 
 
Enquiries 
Enquiries concerning the personal data collected, including the 
request for access and corrections, should be addressed to: 
 
 
Departmental Personal Data Controlling  
 
Officer of the Lands Department 
 
20/F., North Point Government Offices 
 
333 Java Road, North Point 
 
Hong Kong 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

----- page 9/12 -----
General Criteria for Consideration of Lease Modification 
including Land Exchange Applications within the Remaining Phase of Kwu Tung 
North and Fanling North New Development Areas 
 
1. 
Location – confined to sites planned for private developments in the adopted Kwu 
Tung North Outline Development Plan and Fanling North Outline Development 
Plan (which plans including any amended version(s) collectively “ODPs”)1. 
2. 
Size and ownership – the proposed site to be surrendered (i.e. the Proposed Site) 
should have an area of not less than 4,000 m2 (which is a reasonable size to achieve 
a decent development with supporting facilities) and all private lots contained 
therein should be under the ownership of a single owner or joint venture owners as 
the applicant. 
3. 
Configuration – the application site should be reasonably regular in shape with no 
intervening private lots not owned by the applicant.  Lots to be surrendered 
comprising the application site should be contiguous and fragmented lots will not 
be accepted. 
4. 
Confinement within the planned private development site – only lots lying 
within a planned private development site on the two ODPs (confined to those sites 
hatched on the reference plan) will be considered.  Surrender of lots lying within 
an area planned for public use such as road, Government, Institution or Community 
use, open space, green belt, public/subsidised housing will not normally be 
accepted. 
5. 
Access – the provision of proper vehicular access to the application site is feasible.  
6. 
Compliance with the Kwu Tung North Outline Zoning Plan and Fanling North 
Outline Zoning Plan – proposed use and development parameters of the 
application site should comply with the two Outline Zoning Plans. 
7. 
No adverse implications – the proposed development at the application site should 
not cause insurmountable problems to the planning, layout and urban design of the 
surrounding area, and will not jeopardize or hamper the development potential or 
vehicular access of adjacent lands under different ownership.  For application not 
including all private land within the corresponding development site shown in the 
                                                 
1 Apart from the adopted ODPs, applicant should also refer to their subsequent amended version(s) uploaded to 
the Planning Department website. 
Appendix III 

----- page 10/12 -----
ODPs2 , submission of layout plan is required to demonstrate the feasibility of 
decent and practical development(s) fully utilising the land of the concerned 
development site as shown on the ODPs, without resulting in any loss of the 
development potential as planned under the ODPs. 
                                                 
2 The boundary of individual development sites may be subject to adjustment after the Government has carried 
out the detailed design for the New Development Areas. 

----- page 11/12 -----
1 
Appendix IV 
 
 
Requirements for Processing Applications 
for Lease Modification including  Land Exchange within the Remaining Phase of 
Kwu Tung North and Fanling North New Development Areas 
   
 
1. 
Unification, proof of land titles and vacant possession – application may be 
submitted by a single owner or joint venture with unified land titles.  Lots to be 
surrendered should be subject to vacant possession by a specified deadline and free 
from encumbrances before execution of the lease modification/ land exchange if the 
application is approved. 
 
2. 
Comparable compensation or rehousing package – the landowner(s) as the applicant 
should demonstrate that eligible occupants affected by the proposed land exchange (i.e. 
individuals occupying the lots to be surrendered as at 4 July 2013 or thereafter as 
registered in LandsD’s pre-clearance survey) have accepted the compensation or 
rehousing offers from the applicant (save for those occupants who have accepted 
Government’s compensation or rehousing arrangement, see paragraph 4 below).   In the 
case of compensation offers made by the applicant, it should be the prevailing monetary 
ex-gratia compensation that would have been offered by the Government to eligible 
occupants had the private land been resumed and cleared by Government under the New 
Development Areas development.  In the case of rehousing offers made by the 
applicant, it should be comparable to the prevailing non-means tested rehousing that 
would have been offered by the Government to eligible occupants had the private land 
been resumed and cleared by Government under the New Development Areas 
development.  As set out in the paper issued to the Legislative Council in May 2018, 
this comparable rehousing element may take the form of comparable rehousing in kind 
(e.g. accommodation charged at the rental level for a non-means tested rental unit) or 
cash-equivalent of such rehousing element.  Compensation or rehousing to eligible 
occupants provided by the applicant in securing fulfilment of this requirement is not a 
premium-deductible item.  The offer and acceptance of such a comparable package is a 
matter between the applicant and the eligible occupants.  The Government would deem 
the case as settled if the applicant is able to deliver vacant possession with documentary 
evidence indicating that the eligible occupants have accepted the compensation or 
rehousing package offered by the applicant. 
  
3. 
Time limit – the lease modification/ land exchange application (if approved) has to be 
concluded within a specified time period and in any event earlier than the government 
land resumption programme.  In case there are any disputes between the occupants on 
site and the applicant, Lands Department may suspend the processing of the 
applications until the disputes have been satisfactorily resolved.  The specified time 
period will remain unless it is extended by the Government at its absolute discretion. 
 
4. 
Reimbursing Government with compensation and/or rehousing costs – In case the 
eligible occupants have opted for the “Scheme on Early Surrender of and Departure 
from Squatter Structures” 1 (“the Early Departure Scheme”) where Government’s 
                                                 
1  This scheme is for occupants within the boundary of the Remaining Phase of the subject New Development 
Areas to voluntarily apply for early surrender of and departure from their squatter structures and in turn early 
processing for compensation or rehousing from the Government.  

----- page 12/12 -----
2 
compensation or rehousing arrangement has been offered and accepted, the applicant 
shall reimburse the Government with all the costs paid or incurred, including the cash 
value of the rehousing element and administrative cost, to be assessed by the 
Government whose assessment shall be final and binding on the applicant.  The amount 
will be demanded in conjunction with the land premium for the lease modification 
including land exchange.  
 
   
5. 
Government land – the site to be re-granted for a lease modification/ land exchange 
application may include adjoining or intervening government land which is incapable 
of reasonable separate alienation or development.  Please note that Government would 
not normally make available government land adjoining or intervening the private land 
within the development site to enable the re-grant site conforming to the development 
site layout as shown in the ODP if the government land is capable of reasonable separate 
alienation or development. 
 
6. 
Compliance with other general lease modification/land exchange application criteria 
and requirements (as may be revised) promulgated by the Lands Department from time 
to time.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
