
----- page 1/3 -----
■ ■ ij) Lands Administration Office 
11 • Lands Department 
g 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 1/2016 
Application for Waiver for Testing Laboratory Use 
in part(s) of or the entire Existing Industrial Building 
An owner of part(s) of or an entire existing industrial building 1 (hereinafter 
referred to as the "Industrial Premises") who wishes to apply for a waiver to use the Industrial 
Premises for testing and/or calibration laboratory ( excluding any laboratory providing clinical 
testing which requires humans or animals to undergo checking at the Industrial Premises/ 
(hereinafter referred to as a "testing laboratory") use may wish to refer to this Practice Note 
before submitting an application to the Lands Department ("LandsD") with effect from 1st 
February 2016 until such time as LandsD may determine. 
2. 
An owner ofthe Industrial Premises may apply for a waiver at nil waiver fee for 
the use ofthe Industrial Premises or any part thereof as testing laboratory in addition to the use 
permitted under the Government lease of the lot, for the lifetime of the existing industrial· 
building or until expiry or termination of the said Government lease, whichever is the earlier 
("Testing Laboratory Waiver"). An application should be made only iftesting laboratory use is 
permitted by the current land use zoning ofthe site where the Industrial Premises are situated 
on the statutory plans, or granted with planning permission by the Town Planning Board 
("TPB"), or is considered as an existing use under the provision ofthe statutory plans. Where 
the testing laboratory use in the Industrial Premises requires planning permission from the 
TPB, such TPB permission must be obtained before the relevant application is submitted to 
LandsD and the owner must submit proof of such permission at the time of application. 
Laboratories providing clinical testing services requiring humans or animals to undergo 
checking at the Industrial Premises are not eligible to apply for such Testing Laboratory 
Waiver at nil waiver fee. 
3. 
Approval for the grant ofthe Testing Laboratory Waiver is subject to such terms, 
covenants and conditions as may be imposed by LandsD, including but not limited to the 
following: 
1 
An industrial building refers to a building lawfully erected on a lot which, under the lease conditions, shall not 
be used for any purpose other than for industrial and/or godown purposes. Industrial buildings do not include 
special factories such as those located in storage premises in container terminals and flatted factories built by 
the Hong Kong Housing Authority, or lots for special industries such as cargo handling uses, ship building and 
repairing, oil storage and refining and production of associated chemical by-product, manufacture of 
polystyrene plastics, manufacture and storage of chlorine, hydrogen and textile chemicals, etc. 
The 
application must be made in respect ofan existing building or part(s) thereofbut cannot be submitted in respect 
of a vacant site. 
2 
In determining whether a use ofthe Industrial Premises or any part thereof falls within testing laboratory use, 
the decision of the Director of Lands shall be final and binding. 

----- page 2/3 -----
(a) any building works required for the purpose of the permitted testing laboratory 
use under the Testing Laboratory Waiver shall in all respects comply with the 
prevailing provisions ofthe Buildings Ordinance; 
' (b). the permitted use as testing laboratory under the Testing Laboratory Waiver 
shall not prejudice any of the rights and remedies under the Deed of Mutual 
Covenant ofthe industrial building (if applicable); and 
(c) the owner shall indemnify and keep indemnified the Government, its officers 
and servants, from and against all actions, costs, claims and demands arising 
directly or indirectly out of or in connection with the use of the Industrial 
Premises or any part thereof for the purpose oftesting laboratory. 
4. 
The Testing Laboratory Waiver, if approved by LandsD, shall be executed by 
the owner of the Industrial Premises as well as by the mortgagees, chargees and purchasers 
who have entered into an agreement for the sale and purchase ofthe Industrial Premises. The 
Testing Laboratory Waiver will primarily waive the Government's right to enforce the user 
restriction in the Government lease for the Industrial Premises against testing laboratory use 
during the validity period of the Testing Laboratory Waiver. If the owner of the whole 
industrial lot where the Industrial Premises are situated, after obtaining a Testing Laboratory 
Waiver of the Industrial Premises, wishes to modify any other terms contained in the 
Government lease, a separate lease modification3 application will have to be submitted and 
will be processed by LandsD separately. 
5. 
The owner shall pay an administrative fee as and when demanded by LandsD. 
The administrative fee will not be refunded if the owner either withdraws the application or is 
unable to duly execute the documentation for the application for any reason to the satisfaction 
ofLandsD. 
6. 
The owner is reminded of the need to approach other relevant authorities and 
departments, such as the Fire Services Department and the Building Authority, regarding any 
other approvals or licences that may be required under any Ordinances, by-laws or regulations 
that are in force from time to time, whether or not the proposed uses that may be permitted 
under the Testing Laboratory Waiver would involve any alteration, structural or otherwise, to 
the industrial building. 
7. 
The Testing Laboratory Waiver will have effect only for the lifetime of the 
building in existence at the date of issue of the Testing Laboratory Waiver or until the 
Government lease ofthe lot expires or is terminated, whichever is the earlier. Notwithstanding 
the Testing Laboratory Waiver, a premium or waiver fee at full market value (i.e. assessment 
will be made without the benefit ofthe Testing Laboratory Waiver) will be payable if any lease 
modification or temporary waiver3 is applied for and approved. During the validity period of 
the Testing Laboratory Waiver, if the owner wishes to change any of the Testing Laboratory 
Waiver conditions, including any change of the area to be covered under the Testing 
Laboratory Waiver, he should submit an application to LandsD, which may, at its sole and 
absolute discretion, approve or reject and any approval granted may be made upon such terms 
and conditions (including the payment of any premium or charge) as it may impose. 
The iease modification or temporary waiver may take such form and contain such conditions as LandsD may 
consider appropriate for the case, including, among others, payment of a premium or a waiver fee as 
appropriate. 
· 
2 
3 

----- page 3/3 -----
Other Points to Note 
8. 
. The application should be submitted to the relevant District Lands Office of 
LandsD 
at 
the 
address 
as 
set 
out 
m 
the 
LandsD's 
website 
(http://www.landsd.gov.hk/en/about/enquiries.htm). 
The owner may wish to refer to 
Appendix I for a sample application and Appendix II for a note on the use ofthe personal data 
required to be provided in the application. 
9. 
The owner is advised to engage competent professionals to assist in submitting 
the application. 
10. 
Notwithstanding that there is an existing waiver in respect of the Industrial 
Premises or any part of the Industrial Premises ("Existing Waiver"), an application for a 
Testing Laboratory Waiver for or including those units may be submitted under paragraph 2 
hereof and the applicable administrative fee shall be paid as and when demanded by LandsD. 
The Existing Waiver may be terminated by agreement simultaneously upon the execution of 
the Testing Laboratory Waiver, and notwithstanding any conditions in the Existing Waiver to 
the contrary, no waiver fees paid for the Existing Waiver will be refunded and no notice of 
termination will be given or required. There will be no refund of any administrative fees paid 
under the Existing Waiver. 
11. 
Every application submitted to LandsD pursuant to this Practice Note will be 
considered on its own merits by LandsD at its absolute discretion acting in its capacity as a 
landlord. The amount of any administrative fee mentioned herein will be determined by 
LandsD from time to time. This Practice Note shall not constitute any representation on the 
part of the Government or give rise to any expectation on the part of the owner that any 
application submitted to the LandsD will be processed or approved. 
12. 
This Practice Note is issued for general reference purposes only. All rights to 
modify the whole or any part ofthis Practi~e Note are hereby reserved. 
(Ms Bernadette Linn) 
Director ofLands 
25 January 2016 
3 
