
----- page 1/11 -----
ij] 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Pilot Scheme on "Pay for What You Build" 
Issue No. 2/2026 
To provide greater flexibility in lease modification application to better support 
industry development, the 2025 Policy Address has announced, amongst other things, a three-
year pilot scheme on "Pay for What You Build" ("the Pilot Scheme") with regard to 
applications for lease modification in respect of non-residential use developments. 
A lot 
owner who wishes to apply for a lease modification under the Pilot Scheme should refer to this· 
practice note ("PN") and Lands Administration Office PN No. 2/2023 for the general 
procedures for submission and processing of applications for land transactions before 
submitting an application to the Lands Department ("LandsD"). 
For the purpose of this PN, 
any reference to a lease modification shall include a land exchange and any reference to a lease 
modification letter shall include Conditions of Exchange, where the context so admits or 
reqmres. 
Applicability of the Pilot Scheme 
2. 
The Pilot Scheme will be applicable to all lease modification applications for 
non-residential use developments throughout the territory. 
The land lot under application 
should fall within zones designated for "non-residential" use such as "Commercial", "Industrial" 
or "Other Specified Uses (annotation)", etc. of the relevant statutory town plan1 at the time of 
application. 
For land lot located within a mixed use zone allowing both residential and non-
residential developments (e.g. "Other Specified Uses (Mixed Uses)"), the Pilot Scheme will 
only be applicable to the portion of the lot where non-residential use is permitted (without any 
residential elements) which can be developed independently as a separate site. 
3. 
LandsD would consider valid applications made for the purpose of this PN received 
during the three-year period from 1 June 2026 to 31 May 2029 (both dates inclusive). 
Applications received outside the said period will not be considered for the purpose of this PN. 
1 
For the purpose of this PN, the term "statutory town plan" refers to an Outline Zoning Plan or a Development 
Permission Area Plan (as the case may be) that is applicable to the lot. 

----- page 2/11 -----
Lease Modification under the Pilot Scheme 
4. 
Under the Pilot Scheme, a lot owner may apply for a lease modification for 
development of the lot ("Initial Phase Development") according to the development intensity 
and preferred non-residential use 2 ("preferred use") proposed by the lot owner, on the 
condition that -
(a) the proposed development intensity of the Initial Phase Development amounts to at 
least 60% of the "maximum development intensity" which is defined as the total 
permissible maximum Gross Floor Area ("GFA") of the whole lot permitted under the 
relevant statutory town plan3 or the Buildings Ordinance (Cap. 123), whichever is the 
lesser; and 
(b) the preferred use is well-defined with supporting information, with LandsD retaining 
full discretion as to whether such use will be acceptable for the purpose of formulating 
the user restriction under lease. 
5. 
Any approved application under the Pilot Scheme would be subject to such terms and 
conditions as may be imposed at the sole and absolute discretion of LandsD as set out in the 
lease modification letter. 
Such terms and conditions shall include (but not exclusive to) -
(a) a building covenant ("BC") for the Initial Phase Development; 
(b) a restriction on alienation except as a whole for the whole lot4; 
( c) a user restriction clause ·reflecting the preferred use as proposed by the lot owner and 
approved by LandsD for the Initial Phase Development; and 
(d) a maximum GFA clause reflecting the development intensity as proposed by the lot 
owner and approved by LandsD for the Initial Phase Development. 
2 
The preferred non-residential use should be permitted under the relevant statutory town plan or with planning 
permission obtained from the Town Planning Board. 
3 
Where the non-residential development is covered by a planning permission, the maximum development 
intensity refers to the GFA approved by the Town Planning Board. 
For cases requiring planning permission, 
the lot owner is encouraged to indicate in the planning application the intended Initial Phase Development, 
including the proposed development intensity in terms ofGFA, under the Pilot Scheme. 
4 
For the avoidance of doubt, for land lot located within a mixed use zone allowing both residential and non-
residential developments, the restriction on alienation except as a whole will be applicable to the portion of the 
lot where non-residential use is permitted which can be developed independently as a separate site, being the 
subject of the Pilot Scheme. 
If a portion of the site (e.g. with at least 60% of GFA) can be carved out for 
development as a standalone independent lot (i.e. under a separate land lease), LandsD will consider the case 
separately. 
2 

----- page 3/11 -----
The land premium payable by the lot owner for the lease modification will be an amount as 
assessed by LandsD which is equivalent to the difference between the market value of the lot 
under the previous lease conditions and its market value under the modified lease conditions, 
based on the full market value of the GF A for the Initial Phase Development (i.e. at least 60% 
of the total permissible maximum GFA of the lot) and the preferred use proposed by the lot 
owner and approved by LandsD. 
6. 
Lot owners should make reference to the sample application letter at Appendix I and 
follow the application checklist at Appendix II when preparing and submitting their 
applications. 
They should also acknowledge the "Note on Use of Personal Information 
Required in the Application" at Appendix III for any personal information provided in the 
applications. 
Further Lease Modification for Realising the Remaining Development Intensity 
7. 
The lot owner is expected to decide whether to proceed with realising and paying the 
land premium for the remaining balance of the total permissible maximum GFA (i.e. 40% or 
less of the total permissible maximum GFA) of the lot ("the Remaining Balance GFA") or any 
portion of it through a further lease modification or lease modifications within ten years after 
completion of the Initial Phase Development ("the Ten-year Period"). · For the avoidance of 
doubt, "completion of the Initial Phase Development" refers to the fulfillment of the BC as 
evidenced by the date of the first Occupation Permit issued by the Building Authority for the 
Initial Phase Development of the lot. 
8. 
If the lot owner decides to realise the Remaining Balance GFA or any portion of it, he 
has to submit an application for a further lease modification to LandsD within the Ten-year 
Period, which application will be subject to the then prevailing statutory town plan or the 
Buildings Ordinance (Cap.123) in force at the time of the application. 
The restriction on 
alienation except as a whole imposed under lease as referred to in paragraph 5(6) above may 
be removed through this further lease modification at the sole and absolute discretion of 
LandsD, if the Remaining Balance GFA has been fully realised. The land premium payable 
by the lot owner for such further lease modification will be assessed based on the then 
prevailing full market value of the Remaining Balance GFA or the portion concerned, taking 
into account the further modified lease conditions. 
9. 
If the lot owner does not pursue further lease modification referred to in paragraph 8 
above within the Ten-year Period or there is any unrealised balance of the Remaining Balance 
GFA after the expiry of the Ten-year Period, the Government may thereafter, on application 
from other lot owners in the district, redeploy the development intensity and infrastructure 
3 

----- page 4/11 -----
capacity of the Remaining Balance GF A or any unrealised balance thereof to other lots in the 
district5• 
As such, the lot owner shall acknowledge that there would be no guarantee that he 
could realise the Remaining Balance GF A or any unrealised balance thereof beyond the Ten-
year Period in his application. In case the lot owner wishes to realise the Remaining Balance 
GFA or any unrealised balance thereof after the Ten-year Period, he should first approach the 
Planning Department to ascertain whether he could do so under the then prevailing statutory 
town plan before submitting any further lease modification application. 
Any further lease 
modification after the Ten-year Period will be subject to the then prevailing statutory town plan 
or the Buildings Ordinance ( Cap.123) in force at the time of the application. Relevant 
departments may also require updated infrastructure impact assessments to confirm the 
feasibility of the subsequent development being the subject of the further lease modification. 
10. 
Irrespective of whether the lot owner decides to realise or not to realise the Remaining 
Balance GFA or any unrealised balance thereof, he may apply for removal of the restriction on 
alienation except as a whole imposed under lease as referred to in paragraph 5(b) above upon 
the expiry of the Ten-year Period. 
LandsD will consider such application at its sole and 
absolute discretion, and any such application if approved by LandsD would be subject to such 
terms and conditions, including the payment of premium at full market value and 
administrative fees, as may be imposed by LandsD. 
Other Points to Note 
11. 
A list of applications approved under the Pilot Scheme, including the site location, 
user restriction and development intensity of the Initial Phase Development, etc. will be 
uploaded to LandsD website. LandsD will update the website from time to time to show 
whether any lot owner has submitted further lease modification as per paragraph 8 above to 
further realise the Remaining Balance GFA of his lot within the Ten-year Period. This will 
allow other lot owners in the district to assess if their lots could benefit from any unused 
development intensity and infrastructure capacity of the Remaining Balance GF A that may be 
redeployed to their lots under the Pilot Scheme upon expiry of the Ten-year Period, subject to 
relevant planning applications for planning permission or rezoning if required and 
infrastructure impact assessment as appropriate. 
12. 
Lot owners are advised to engage competent professionals to assist them in making 
applications under the Pilot Scheme. 
5 
The Government may allow other development sites in the district to pursue a higher development intensity 
upon application by the relevant lot owners. 
Planning permission or rezoning may be required as appropriate. 
The relevant lot owners in the district may approach the Planning Department to enquire on whether they may 
utilise any remaining development intensity and infrastructure capacity in the district. 
4 

----- page 5/11 -----
13. 
Nothing in this PN shall in any way fetter, affect or prejudice the rights of the 
Government, the Director of Lands and their officers under the relevant lease or the 
Government's rights as lessor or private landlord, and all such rights are hereby reserved. 
Besides, nothing in this PN, including any words and expressions used therein, shall in any 
way be construed as any variation or waiver of any provisions under the relevant lease or affect, 
prejudice or bind the Government in relation to interpretation or enforcement of the terms and 
conditions of the relevant lease or otherwise. 
14. 
Every application submitted to LaridsD under the Pilot Scheme pursuant to this PN 
will be considered on its own merits by LandsD at its sole and absolute discretion acting in its 
capacity as a private landlord. 
Please note that LandsD acting in its capacity as private 
landlord may, at its sole and absolute discretion, approve or reject any application submitted to 
LandsD pursuant to this PN. 
This PN shall not constitute any representation on the part of 
the Government or other authorities or give rise to any expectation that any application 
submitted to LandsD will be processed or approved. 
15. 
This PN is issued for general reference purposes only. 
The Government shall at its 
sole and absolute discretion decide the applicability of the provisions of this PN to each 
individual case. 
All rights to modify the whole or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. 
5 
( Maurice LOO ) 
Director of Lands 
29 May 2026 

----- page 6/11 -----
Sample Application Letter 
Application for a Lease Modification ( or a Land Exchange) 
under the Pilot Scheme on "Pay for What You Build" 
To: *District Lands Officer/[District], Lands Department/ 
Chief Estate Surveyor/[Section], Lands Department 
Dear Sirs, 
-(L_o_t_n_um_b_er_) _______ ("the Lot") 
(Address) 
Appendix I 
*I / We, 
(name of the Lot owner(s)) 
,. the registered owner of the Lot, hereby 
apply for a * [Lease Modification / Land Exchange] in respect of the Lease / Conditions of 
*[Sale/ Exchange/ Grant] No. __ dated the __ day of ___ / New Grant No. 
dated the __ day of ____ #[ as varied or moqified by a Modification Letter dated the 
__ day of ____ and registered in the Land Registry by Memorial No.------'-----' 
("the *[Lease/ Conditions/ New Grant]") under which the Lot ____ is held. 
*I/ We have read and confirm that *I/ we understand the contents of the Lands Department 
("LandsD") Lands Administration Office Practice Note No. 2/2026 ("PN 2/2026"). 
Unless 
otherwise specified, the terms used herein are as defined in PN 2/2026. 
*I / we hereby 
expressly confirm, acknowledge and declare that:-
(i) 
The Lot is situated in a zone designated for 
[please specify the town plan zoning for the 
Lot] 
according to the * [Outline Zoning Plan ("OZP") No. ___ / Development 
Permission Area Plan ("DPAP") No. ---~ 
(ii) The proposed preferred non-residential use(s) of the Lot is ________ . *I/ We 
agree that the preferred use needs to be well-defined with supporting information (I) and 
LandsD retains full discretion as to whether such use will be acceptable for the purpose of 
formulating the user restriction under lease. 
(iii) The total permissible maximum Gross Floor Area ("GFA") of the Lot is ____ m2 under 
the *[OZP No. ___ I DPAP No. ___ I the Buildings Ordinance (Cap. 123)]. 
The proposed total GFA under application is ____ m2, which amounts to 
(please 
specify the percentage) 
% of the total permissible maximum GFA of the Lot (I) & (2). 

----- page 7/11 -----
(iv) If *I/ we do not pursue further lease modification to realise the Remaining Balance GFA 
within the Ten-year Period or there is any unrealized balance of the Remaining Balance 
GFA after the expiry of the Ten-year Period as mentioned in paragraph 9 of PN 2/2026, 
the Government may thereafter, on application from other lot owners in the district, 
redeploy the development intensity and infrastructure capacity of the Remaining Balance 
GFA or any unrealized balance thereof to other lots in the district. 
(v) There is no guarantee that *I / we can realise the Remaining Balance GFA or any 
unrealized balance thereof beyond the Ten-year Period under paragraph 9 of PN 2/2026 in 
case *I/ we wish to do so after the Ten-year Period. 
Before submitting any further lease 
modification application under paragraph 9 of PN 2/2026, *I / we will first approach the 
Planning Department to ascertain whether *I / we may do so under the then prevailing 
statutory town plan. 
Details of the proposal are provided on separate sheet(s) attached to this application. 
To 
facilitate consideration of *my / our application, *I / we attach the Application Checklist at 
Appendix II of PN 2/2026 together with the required documents / information for your 
consideration. 
*I / We hereby expressly warrant and declare that the above documents / information 
provided in support of *my/ our application is/ are correct and genuine and *I/ we expressly 
acknowledge that *I am / we are aware and accept that the decision on the application will be 
made by the LandsD on the basis of the documents/ information supplied by *me/ us and *my 
I our application may be immediately rejected in the event that such documents / information 
is / are found to be false or misleading. 
* I / We have read and understood the "Note on Use of Personal Information Required in 
the Application" at Appendix III of PN 2/2026 and hereby consent to the disclosure of *my / 
our personal data contained herein and in the attached documents to you and other Government 
bureaux or departments for the purpose of considering and processing my I our application. 
*I / We further authorize and direct and request any Government bureaux or departments 
which may be approached by the LandsD to supply any and all documents / information which 
it may require for the purpose of considering and processing my I our application. 
2 

----- page 8/11 -----
* Delete as appropriate 
# 
Insert if applicable 
Notes: 
Yours faithfully, 
Signature(s) of the *Lot owner(s) / authorized officer(s) for 
and on behalf of the Lot owner(s): 
(H.K.I.D. Card Number(s) of the Lot owner(s) (if applicable): 
Name(s) of the Lot owner(s) in Block Letters: -----
*Name(s) and capacity of the authorized officer(s) of the Lot 
owner(s): -----------------
Address of the Lot owner(s): -----------
Telephone Number of the Lot owner(s): _______ _ 
Date: ----------
(1) Details of the proposed GFA and preferred non-residential uses including the scope and 
mode of occupation and operation, business model, etc. will need to be provided on separate 
sheet(s) attached to the application. 
(2) Please provide the figure which is the lesser of that permitted under (i) the OZP or DPAP 
(as the case may be) and (ii) the Buildings Ordinance (Cap. 123). 
3 

----- page 9/11 -----
Appendix II 
Application Checklist 
A. 
Documents/ Information that must be submitted (t): 
(i) 
(ii) 
(iii) 
(iv) 
(v) 
(vi) 
(vii) 
(viii) 
Details of the application clearly identifying the property 
concerned (2), the total permissible maximum gross floor area 
("GFA") under the relevant Outline Zoning Plan, Development 
Permission Area Plan or the Buildings Ordinance (Cap. 123), the 
variations being sought in respect of any terms and conditions of the 
existing lease conditions including the modification of any restrictions 
and development parameters ( e.g. proposed preferred non-residential 
uses (with supporting information including the scope and mode of 
occupation and operation, business model, etc.), proposed total GFA 
together with its percentage relative to the total permissible maximum 
GFA, plan(s)/sketch(es) illustrating the delineation of different 
proposed non-residential uses with respective proposed GFA, etc.). 
A copy of an up-to-date location / site plan on an appropriate scale 
(normally 1: 1000) showing the property. 
A copy of the Town Planning Board approval letter for the proposed 
preferred non-residential use, if applicable. 
A copy of a computer printout (either hard copy or soft copy) 
containing the current ownership particulars of the property. 
If submitted by an agent, a written authorization from the principal 
who should be the registered owner or a prospective purchaser C3) of 
the property. 
If submitted by a prospective purchaser (3), a written consent from the 
registered owner of the property. 
An extract copy of the relevant Outline Zoning Plan (together with the 
explanatory notes, as appropriate) showing the property. 
An extract copy of the relevant Development Permission Area Plan 
(together with the explanatory notes, as appropriate) showing the 
property. 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 

----- page 10/11 -----
B. 
Documents / Information that will facilitate the processing of the 
application : 
(ix) 
(x) 
(xi) 
For an application which involves portion(s) of a lot, or sub-divisions 
of any lot, to help expedite the verification of site areas and site 
boundaries, all relevant assignment plans or Deed Poll plans should 
be provided together with any relevant information relating to the 
delineation of the boundaries of these portion( s) or sub-divisions. 
Sketch plans illustrating the proposed development (4l, if available. 
Copies of any approved submissions by other relevant authorities 
relating to the development proposal or other relevant study 
assessment reports, if available ( e.g. Approved Master Layout Plans 
under the Town Planning Ordinance, Environmental / Traffic / 
Drainage Impact Assessment Reports etc.) 
□ 
□ 
□ 
(I) 
Please put a tick in the relevant box if applicable unless otherwise specified; and delete 
as appropriate. 
(2) 
Property includes all lots involved in a ·lease modification or land exchange application. 
(3) 
A prospective purchaser is an intending purchaser under an existing Agreement for Sale 
and Purchase registered in the Land Registry. 
(4) 
The proposal should be prepared and submitted by an Authorized Person or other 
competent professionals acting for the applicant. 
2 

----- page 11/11 -----
Appendix III 
Note on Use of Personal Information Reguiredin the Application 
(Please read the following before completing and submitting the application) 
Purpose of Collection 
Class of Transferees 
The personal data provided in application pursuant to Lands 
Department Lands Administration Office Practice Note No. 
2/2026 and its Appendices I and II will be used by the Lands 
Department for the purpose of considering and processing the 
application. 
The provision of the personal data is obligatory. 
If you do not provide the personal data, the Lands Department 
may not be able to process your application. 
The personal data you provided may be disclosed to other 
Government bureaux / departments for the purpose mentioned 
above. 
Access to Personal Data 
The individual who is the subject of the personal data has a right 
of access and correction with respect to personal data as provided 
for in Sections 18 and 22 and Principle 6 of Schedule 1 of the 
Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance. 
Such right of access 
includes the right to obtain a copy of the personal data provided 
upon payment of the applicable charge: 
Enquiries 
Enquiries concerning the personal data collected, including the 
. request for access and correction, should be addressed to: 
Departmental Personal Data Controlling 
Officer of the Lands Department 
20/F., North Point Government Offices 
333 Java Road, North Point 
Hong Kong 
