
----- page 1/8 -----
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
 
Practice Note  
 
 
   
Issue No. 2/2025 
 
 
Applications for Lease Modification 
including Land Exchange for Development of Land  
within the Second Phase of Yuen Long South New Development Area 
 
 
 
 
Following the issue of the Practice Note (“PN”) No. 13/2023 on New Arrangements 
for Applications for Lease Modification including Land Exchange under the “Enhanced 
Conventional New Town Approach” (“ECNTA”) by Lands Department (“LandsD”) on 28 
December 2023, owners of private lots within the Second Phase of Yuen Long South New 
Development Area (“YLS NDA”) may apply to LandsD on or before 19 May 2025 for a lease 
modification including land exchange (collectively “land exchange”) for development of their 
lots within sites earmarked by the Government for private development and open for land 
exchange application within the Second Phase of YLS NDA under the ECNTA.  Lot owners 
who wish to apply for such a land exchange (“Applicants”) should refer to this PN and PN No. 
13/2023 for information regarding the application.   
 
Relevant Plans  
 
2. 
Development of the Second Phase of YLS NDA should follow the Approved Tong 
Yan San Tsuen Outline Zoning Plan No. S/YL-TYST/14 gazetted on 20 August 2021 and/or 
any subsequent amendment plans thereof (“OZP”).  Information in respect of the OZP may be 
obtained from the Town Planning Board (“TPB”) website: http://www.ozp.tpb.gov.hk/.  Hard 
copies of the OZP are also available for sale at the Map Publications Centres.  Development of 
the Second Phase of YLS NDA should also make reference to the Revised Recommended 
Outline Development Plan (including any amended version(s)), which is available from the 
website of YLS NDA: https://www.yls.hk/.  
 
Sites Open for Application 
 
3. 
The two sites in the Second Phase of YLS NDA which are now open for land exchange 
applications under the ECNTA are coloured yellow hatched red on the Reference Plan in 
Appendix I to this PN, i.e. Site A and Site B (“designated development sites”).   Under the 
OZP, Site A of about 3.7 hectares (ha) falls entirely within an area zoned “Other Specified 
Uses” annotated “Storage and Workshop Use” (“OU(SW)”)1, whereas Site B of about 1.2 ha 
is largely zoned “OU(SW)” with the remaining portion falling within an area shown as ‘Road’.  
                                                 
1 According to the Notes of the OZP, the “OU(SW)” zone is intended for multi-storey buildings to house the 
brownfield operations that could not be accommodated in conventional flatted factory buildings (i.e. storage of 
goods or operations that involve bulky and heavy goods/machinery and require high headroom). 
 

----- page 2/8 -----
 
-  2  -
Due to the shifting of road alignment as a result of detailed design since the promulgation of 
the OZP, the said portion shown as ‘Road’ can now be made available for storage and workshop 
use.   For Site B, the Government’s intention is for the entirety of the extended site to be 
developed for “OU(SW)” purposes.   The Government will make an application to the TPB for 
a planning permission to allow storage and workshop uses on the portion of Site B shown as 
‘Road’ if an application for in-situ land exchange is received2.  For the avoidance of doubt, the 
exact locations and boundaries of the two designated development sites as shown in the 
Reference Plan are for illustration only and may be adjusted or amended as appropriate.  The 
Government retains full discretion in determining the boundary of the designated development 
sites.  
 
Submission Requirements and Criteria 
 
4. 
When submitting land exchange applications, Applicants should follow the checklist 
of basic submission requirements in Appendix II and acknowledge the Note on Use of 
Personal Information Required in the Application in Appendix III for any personal 
information provided in the application.  Applicants should refer to PN No. 13/2023 in relation 
to the general application requirements and new arrangements for land exchange applications 
under the ECNTA.  Pursuant to those requirements and arrangements, the application criteria 
applicable to the Second Phase of YLS NDA are set out in Appendix IV.  
  
5. 
As stated in PN No. 13/2023, Applicants for land exchange under the ECNTA may be 
required by the Government to construct public facilities.  For the avoidance of doubt, in 
accordance with PN No. 13/2023, Applicants who opt for the relaxed land ownership criterion 
shall be required to construct specified public facilities in the Second Phase of YLS NDA as a 
condition for the land exchange; as for other Applicants, the Government may invite them to 
construct specified public facilities as appropriate.  The construction of public facilities shall 
be in specified manners with specified materials and specified standards as may be required by 
the Government in its absolute discretion and specified in the land grant documents.  If the 
Government considers it appropriate, the construction cost of the public facilities may be 
premium deductible.  The Government will determine the public facilities (if any) to be 
constructed by individual Applicants for designated development sites, and will inform the 
Applicants individually.  
 
Specific Arrangement and Requirement 
 
6. 
In line with the land exchange arrangements adopted for sites for storage and 
workshop uses in the Hung Shui Kiu/Ha Tsuen NDA,  Applicants may be required to hand 
over, upon completion of the development, a certain percentage of the floor space to the 
Government (“the Government Accommodation”) for accommodating brownfield operations 
displaced by government projects.  For this invitation of land exchange applications, this 
requirement will be applicable to Site A which is larger in area and the Government 
Accommodation to be handed over to the Government upon completion will be 20% of the 
                                                 
2 On current showing, subject to TPB’s consideration and approval, we expect that planning permission should be 
obtained in time (say six calendar months) before the deadline for acceptance of binding basic terms offer (with 
premium).  However, if, for whatever reason, the planning permission is not obtained in time, the Government 
retains full discretion in determining whether to reject the submitted land exchange application or adopt alternative 
ways of handling.   
 

----- page 3/8 -----
 
-  3  -
floor space.  The Government Accommodation will be taken over by the Government for 
leasing to displaced brownfield operators on terms and conditions to be decided by the 
Government.  While the Government would take into account the benefit of cluster 
development and synergy among different uses in the same building, the use(s) of the 
Government Accommodation may not necessarily be the same as the major use(s) for the 
remaining floor space.  Relevant specific requirements will be incorporated as part of the land 
exchange conditions as needed.  
 
Assessment of Premium at Standard Rates 
 
7. 
  The Government will provide an option for assessment of premium at standard rates 
to land exchange applications in respect of the Second Phase of YLS NDA.  Details will be 
announced in due course.  For the avoidance of doubt, PN No. 12/2023 as supplemented by PN 
No. 12/2023A on Charging Land Premium at Standard Rates on Lease Modifications for 
Redevelopment of Industrial Buildings, as well as PN No. 11/2023 as supplemented by PN No.  
11/2023A on Pilot Scheme for Charging Land Premium at Standard Rates on Lease 
Modification including Land Exchange for Development of Agricultural Land in the New 
Territories outside New Development Areas, do not apply to the land exchange applications 
pursuant to this PN. 
 
Submission of Applications and Deadlines 
 
8. 
Applications should be submitted to LandsD New Development Area Section for the 
attention of the Chief Estate Surveyor/NDA, which is located in Unit 1501-10, 15/F, Landmark 
North, 39 Lung Sum Avenue, Sheung Shui, New Territories.  The deadline for submitting land 
exchange applications pursuant to this PN is 19 May 2025.  Late applications will not be 
considered.  Any accepted application will cease to be processed if a binding basic terms offer 
(with premium) cannot be issued and accepted on or before 19 May 2026 taking into account 
the Government’s development programme.  The administrative fee or any other fee paid will 
not be refunded upon cessation of processing the applications in this circumstance or in any of 
the circumstance as set out in any letter demanding payment of administrative fee.  
 
9. 
Owners are advised to engage competent professionals to assist them in making the 
applications.   
 
10. 
Please note that LandsD acting in its capacity as private landlord may, at its sole and 
absolute discretion, approve or reject any applications.  This PN shall not constitute any 
representation on the part of the Government or give rise to any expectation on the part of the 
Applicant that any application submitted to LandsD will be processed or approved. 
 
11. 
This PN is issued for general reference purposes only.  All rights to modify the whole 
or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. 
 
 
 
( Maurice LOO ) 
Director of Lands 
19 February 2025 

----- page 4/8 -----
Hung Tso Tin
Tsuen
Tan Kwai
Tsuen
Park Signature
Shui Tsiu
San Tsuen
Tin Liu
Tsuen
Wong Nai Tun
Tsuen
Fraser
Village
Meadowlands
The Woodsville
Tai Kei
Leng
Shung Ching
San Tsuen
Sham Chung
Tsuen
Fui Sha Wai
Muk Kiu Tau
Tsuen
San Hei Tsuen
Ma Tin
Tsuen
Lung Tin
Tsuen
Uptown
Sereno Verde
Ma Tin
Pok
Tai Tong
Tsuen
Le Regent
Hung Fuk
Estate
Pak Sha Tsuen
One Hyde
Park
Yeung Ka Tsuen
Tai Tao
Tsuen
Lam Hau
Tsuen
Shan Ha
Tsuen
Wo Ping
San Tsuen
Park Villa
Quarry
Sha Tseng
Tsuen
Tong Yan
San Tsuen
Ser Res
Ser Res
Cheung
Ancestral Hall
 PLAN No. YLM11297
 Reference Plan No.
 O.Z.P. No.
 Base Map No. 6 (
 Series HM20C/2)
 File No. NDA/YLS/EPOL/2, DSO/YL/13/157/2
Date :  04/02/2025
------
Plan Prepared by District Survey Office, Yuen Long
FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES ONLY
   Copyright reserved - Hong Kong SAR Government
©
S/YL-TT/20, S/YL-TYST/14 & S/YL/27
            LEGEND
DISTRIBUTION OF THE SITES OPEN FOR APPLICATION
FOR LEASE MODIFICATION (INCLUDING IN-SITU LAND EXCHANGE) -
SECOND PHASE OF YUEN LONG SOUTH NEW DEVELOPMENT AREA
Lands  D epar tment
New Developm ent Ar ea S ectio n
SCALE
metres
metres
1:15 000
300
0
300
600
900
1200
1500

----- page 5/8 -----
 
- 1 -
 
 
Checklist of Basic Requirements for Submission of an Application for a Land Exchange for 
Development of Land within the Second Phase of Yuen Long South New Development Area 
 
A. 
Information / Documents that must be submitted1 : 
 
(i) 
 
A detailed application letter clearly identifying the property2 
concerned, the variations being sought in respect of any terms and 
conditions of the existing lease conditions including the modification 
of any restrictions and development parameters included in the 
existing lease conditions (e.g. proposed user, maximum gross floor 
area, site coverage, number of storeys/building height, etc.)  
 
 
 
(ii) 
A copy of an up-to-date location / site plan on an appropriate scale 
(normally 1:1000) showing the property. 
 
 
 
(iii) 
A copy of the Town Planning Board approval letter for the proposed 
uses or development, if applicable.   
 
 
(iv) 
A copy of computer printout (either hard copy or soft copy) containing 
the current ownership particulars of the property.  
 
 
(v) 
If submitted by an agent, a written authorization from the principal 
who should be the registered owner or a prospective purchaser3 of the 
property.  
 
 
(vi) 
If submitted by a prospective purchaser3, a written consent from the 
registered owner.  
 
 
(vii) 
If submitted by an individual applicant, a written confirmation that he 
has read and understood the Note on Use of Personal Information 
Required in the Application at Appendix III and that he consents to 
disclosure of his personal data to other Government bureaux or 
departments for the purpose of considering and processing his 
application.  
 
 
 
B. 
Information / Documents that will facilitate the processing of the  
 
Application: 
 
 
 
(viii) 
 
 
An extract copy of the relevant Outline Zoning Plan (together with 
the explanatory notes, as appropriate) showing the property.  
 
 
 
(ix) 
For application involving portion(s) of a lot, or sub-divisions of any 
lots, to help expedite the verification of site areas and site boundaries, 
all relevant assignment plans or Deed Poll plans should be provided 
together with any relevant information relating to the delineation of 
the boundaries of these sub-divisions.  
 
 
(x) 
Sketch plans illustrating the proposed development, if available.  
 
 
Appendix II 

----- page 6/8 -----
 
- 2 -
(xi) 
Copies of any approved submissions by other relevant authorities 
relating to the development proposal or other relevant study 
assessment reports, if available (e.g. Approved Master Layout Plans 
under the Town Planning Ordinance, Environmental / Traffic / 
Drainage Impact Assessment Reports etc.)  
 
 
(xii) 
A schedule showing the details of any existing occupants on the lots 
to be surrendered including the name and number of occupants, nature 
of occupation, length of occupation and any tenancy agreement. 
 
 
(xiii) 
A schedule showing the details of all occupants on the lots to be 
surrendered as at 10 July 2020 or thereafter but have subsequently 
moved out including the name and number of such occupants, nature 
of occupation, length of occupation and any tenancy agreement. 
 
 
(xiv) 
A proposed development programme for the proposed development.  
 
 
(xv) 
To facilitate timely determination by LandsD of whether the 90% 
threshold of private land within designated development site is 
fulfilled, the applicant may provide to LandsD the submission and 
documents prepared by an Authorised Land Surveyor4 showing (a) 
the areas (plan area) and boundaries of the lots to be wholly / partially 
surrendered; and (b) the areas (plan area) and boundaries of the 
overall private land within the corresponding designated development 
site5.  
 
 
 
Notes : 
 
1 
Please put a tick in the relevant box if applicable unless otherwise specified; and delete 
as appropriate.  
 
2 
Property includes all lots involved in a land exchange application. 
 
3 
A prospective purchaser is an intending purchaser under an existing Agreement for Sale 
and Purchase registered in the Land Registry.  
 
4 
Authorised Land Surveyor is professional land surveyor registered under Part IV of the 
Land Survey Ordinance (Cap 473). The list of practising authorised land surveyor is 
available at: https://www.landsd.gov.hk/en/survey-mapping/authority/als.html 
 
5 
The submission and documents should be submitted alongside the submission of the land 
exchange application.  Otherwise, LandsD will simply base on the information known 
to the department and consider whether the 90% threshold could be fulfilled.  LandsD 
reserves the right to require the applicant to provide additional supporting documents to 
facilitate processing and the applicant shall provide such documents within such time as 
required by LandsD. 
 

----- page 7/8 -----
Appendix III 
 
Note on Use of Personal Information Required in the Application 
 
Purpose of Collection 
The personal data provided in application pursuant to this 
Practice Note and Appendix II will be used by the Lands 
Department for the purpose of considering and processing the 
application.  The provision of the personal data is obligatory. 
If you do not provide the personal data, the Lands Department 
may not be able to process your application. 
 
 
Class of Transferees 
The personal data you provided may be disclosed to other 
Government bureaux / departments for the purpose mentioned 
above. 
 
 
Access to Personal Data 
The individual who is the subject of the personal data has a right 
of access and correction with respect to personal data as 
provided for in Sections 18 and 22 and Principle 6 of Schedule 
1 of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance.  Such right of 
access includes the right to obtain a copy of the personal data 
provided upon payment of the applicable charge. 
 
 
Enquiries 
Enquiries concerning the personal data collected, including the 
request for access and corrections, should be addressed to: 
 
 
Departmental Personal Data Controlling 
 Officer of the Lands Department 
 
20/F., North Point Government Offices 
 
333 Java Road, North Point 
 
Hong Kong  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

----- page 8/8 -----
Specific Criteria for Consideration of Applications for Lease Modification 
including Land Exchange for Development of Land 
within the Second Phase of Yuen Long South New Development Area  
 
 
1. 
Confinement within the designated development sites – the surrender of lots for 
land exchange will be confined to private lots lying within the relevant designated 
development site mentioned in paragraph 3 of PN No. 2/2025 and shown coloured 
yellow hatched red on the Reference Plan.  Surrender of lot(s) lying outside the 
designated development site will not normally be accepted. 
2. 
Ownership, Size and Configuration – all private lots to be surrendered should be 
under the ownership of a single owner or joint venture owners as the Applicant.  
The Surrender Site (i.e. the proposed site to be surrendered) should have an area 
not less than the total area of the private land within the designated development 
site concerned, excluding land subject to minor adjustment of the development site 
boundary that will not adversely affect the development layout of the site.  The 
planning intention is to pursue a single development for each of the two designated 
development sites.  If the Applicant has acquired 90% or more (but less than 
100%) of all private land within the designated development site, he may apply for 
the relaxed land ownership criterion for his application as per paragraphs 8 to 10 
of PN No. 13/2023 (the Applicant should indicate in his land exchange application 
if he is applying for the relaxed land ownership criterion).  The Re-grant Site (i.e. 
the site to be re-granted in exchange of the Surrender Site if approved) shall also 
conform to the site boundary of the designated development site concerned, subject 
to minor adjustment of the development site boundary that would not adversely 
affect the development layout of the site.  For the avoidance of doubt, the above 
does not imply any intention or obligation on the part of the Government to make 
available government land adjoining or intervening the private land within the 
designated development site to enable the Re-grant Site to conform to the 
development site layout of the designated development site. 
3. 
Access – the provision of proper vehicular access to the application site is feasible.  
4. 
Compliance with the Outline Zoning Plan – proposed use and development 
parameters of the application site should comply with the relevant Outline Zoning 
Plan. 
5. 
No adverse implications – the proposed development at the application site should 
not cause insurmountable problems to the planning, layout and urban design of the 
surrounding area, and will not jeopardize or hamper the development potential or 
vehicular and/or pedestrian access of adjacent lands under different ownerships.  
Appendix IV 
