
----- page 1/19 -----
 
 
 
Practice Note 
 
Issue No. 2/2023 
 
 
 
Processing of Applications for Lease Modifications,  
Land Exchanges, Private Treaty Grants and Other Land Transactions 
 
 
 
This practice note (“PN”) consolidates the prevailing general procedures and 
requirements in processing applications for lease modifications, land exchanges, private treaty 
grants and other land transactions1 (collectively “land transactions”). It also simplifies the 
submission of documents by the applicants. 
 
2. 
The general procedures for submission and processing of applications for land 
transactions are as follows (the key steps are summarised in the Simplified Procedural Flow-
chart at Appendix I) :- 
 
(i) 
Submission of Application 
 
Applications for land transactions will only be considered and processed 
when submitted by (a) the registered owner of the lots concerned, or (b) the 
prospective purchaser under a registered Agreement for Sale and Purchase 
(“ASP”) with the written consent of the registered owner, or (c) their 
representative with written authorisation from the registered owner or 
prospective purchaser whom can act on their behalf.  
 
For land exchanges, only an application where the applicant or its wholly-
owned subsidiaries have collectively acquired or already owned all of the 
lots to be surrendered or are prospective purchasers under a registered ASP 
with the registered owner’s written consent, will be accepted for processing.  
 
Applicants should follow the Application Checklist at Appendix II when 
                                                 
1 This PN does not cover land transactions under the Small House Policy and land transactions of temporary 
nature.  
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 

----- page 2/19 -----
- 2 - 
 
 
 
preparing and submitting their applications. Individual applicant is also 
required to give a written confirmation that he has read and understood the 
Note on Use of Personal Information Required in the Application at 
Appendix III and that he gives consent to the disclosure of his personal data 
to other Government bureaux or departments (“B/Ds”) for the purpose of 
considering and processing his application.  
 
The Lands Department (“LandsD”) will request further information to 
validate an application where necessary. 
 
(ii) 
Payment of Initial Administrative Fee and Initial LACO Fee  
 
 
After initial checking, the applicant would be advised if the application can 
be further processed. If the application is valid for processing, demand note(s) 
for the initial administrative fee (and initial Legal Advisory and 
Conveyancing Office (“LACO”) fee for cases involving surrender of land to 
the Government) will be issued to the applicant for settlement on or before 
the date specified in the preliminary reply letter. The initial administrative 
fee and initial LACO fee may only represent part of the total administrative 
fee and total LACO fee chargeable for the land transaction. The balance of 
administrative fee and balance of LACO fee (if any) will be demanded at the 
offer stage. The application will be deemed withdrawn if the initial 
administrative fee and initial LACO fee (if demanded) are not settled on or 
before the specified date. 
 
(iii) 
Title Checking 
 
For land exchanges, applicants will be required by LACO to submit title 
deeds for all the lots to be surrendered for checking. Applicants should 
rectify all title defects, settle all title issues, clear all encumbrances (e.g. 
outstanding premium instalments) and prove good title to the lots to be 
surrendered to LACO’s satisfaction within the specified period. For the 
general procedures and points-to-note for proving good title to the lots to be 
surrendered in land exchanges, please refer to Appendix IV.  
 
(iv) 
Submission to District Lands Conference or to Officers with Delegated 
Authority 
 
Applications will be processed by the respective District Lands Office 

----- page 3/19 -----
- 3 - 
 
 
 
(“DLO”) or a Specialist Section (“Section”) of LandsD, and other relevant 
B/Ds may be consulted as appropriate. Applicants of major land transactions 
would be provided with a copy of the materials circulated to B/Ds which may 
contact the applicant for clarifications as necessary.  
 
Depending on the nature of the application, it may be submitted to an inter-
departmental forum known as the District Lands Conference (“DLC”) or to 
officers with delegated authority for consideration and decision.  
 
For applications to be considered by DLC, the applicant would be invited to 
attend DLC to provide further background information or clarifications as 
necessary. The Chairperson of DLC may ask the applicant to leave prior to 
making a decision on his case. Applicants who wish to attend DLC should 
confirm their attendance at least two working days prior to DLC or they may 
make written submissions in lieu of personal attendance. 
 
Copies of the relevant papers to be discussed at DLC would be sent to the 
applicant. The papers including the draft document for the proposed land 
transaction are provided to the applicant for information on a confidential 
basis. Applicants should not disclose the contents of these documents to any 
parties without LandsD’s written permission. Furthermore, as the contents of 
these documents have not been decided upon, the Government does not 
consider itself bound in any way. 
 
(v) 
Provisional Offer of Basic Terms  
 
 
 
After LandsD made a decision for the land transactions, applicants would be 
issued with a provisional basic terms offer (“PBTO”) (without the premium 
amount) or they would be advised either: 
 
(a) the application is rejected; or 
 
(b) the application is agreed in-principle subject to the resolution of 
specified major issues and/or statutory procedures. 
        
 
If a PBTO is made, the applicant will be required to confirm his acceptance 
of the offer by the date specified in the PBTO. If the applicant’s confirmation 
of acceptance is not received by the specified date, he will be deemed to have 
withdrawn from the proposed land transaction in which any administrative 

----- page 4/19 -----
- 4 - 
 
 
 
fee and/or LACO fee paid will be forfeited.  
 
 
(vi) 
Premium Assessment  
 
 
For land transactions requiring the assessment of land premium, the 
applicant’s acceptance of the PBTO will trigger the premium assessment 
procedures as set out at Appendix V.  
 
(vii) 
Binding Offer of Basic Terms  
        
 
After the Government has decided on the amount of premium payable (other 
than nil or a nominal premium (e.g. $1,000)) and, in case of land exchanges, 
LACO is satisfied with the title to the lots to be surrendered or that the title 
encumbrances are rectifiable before completion of the land transaction, a 
binding offer of basic terms (“BBTO”) (including the premium amount) 
together with the draft document(s) for the proposed land transaction (“the 
Document(s)”) will be sent to the applicant . If the terms and conditions set 
out in the BBTO and the Document(s) are acceptable, the applicant shall, on 
or before the date to be specified in the BBTO : (a) execute the Acceptance 
Letter attached to the BBTO and return it together with relevant supporting 
documents to prove due execution, (b) pay the balance of administrative fee 
and balance of LACO fee (if any), (c) pay 10% of the premium as deposit, 
and (d) provide a letter from the mortgagee/chargee (if applicable) 
confirming that they have no objection to the proposed land transaction on 
the terms offered to the applicant. Failure to do so will be deemed withdrawal 
by the applicant from the proposed land transaction, in which event, any 
administrative fee and LACO fee paid will be forfeited. 
 
 
 
Acceptance of the offer including the premium and due payment of the 
premium deposit, balances of administrative fee and LACO fee (if any) on 
or before the specified date will constitute a binding contract between the 
Government and the applicant on the land transaction. The date of receipt by 
LandsD of the applicant’s acceptance shall be the date upon which a binding 
contract is entered into (“the Contract Date”) between the Government and 
the applicant. Upon receipt of the applicant’s acceptance, LandsD will 
proceed to arrange execution of the Document(s).  
 
 
 

----- page 5/19 -----
- 5 - 
 
 
 
(viii) 
Appeal against the Premium  
 
 
 
If the applicant does not find the premium as stated in the BBTO acceptable, 
he may appeal by (a) returning the Appeal Letter attached to the BBTO duly 
signed while confirming the acceptance of all basic terms (other than 
premium), and (b) settling the balances of administrative fee and LACO fee 
(if any) on or before the date specified in the BBTO. The procedures for 
handling appeals against premium assessment are set out at Appendix V. 
 
(ix) 
Issue of Revised Offer on Premium Assessment 
 
 
After the premium has been re-assessed, a revised BBTO will be made to the 
applicant following the procedures as set out in paragraph 2(vii) above. The 
applicant will be informed of the amount of the prevalent total administrative 
fee payable. Any administrative fee paid before will be taken as part of the 
total administrative fee, and the balance (if any) will be demanded when a 
revised BBTO is made. 
 
 
If the revised premium offered by the Government is in the same amount as 
the applicant has submitted in accordance with the Appeal Letter but the 
applicant does not accept the revised premium, the applicant will be deemed 
to have withdrawn from the proposed land transaction in which event the 
administrative fee and LACO fee (if any) paid will be forfeited. 
 
 
(x) 
Execution of the Document(s) 
 
 
When the Document(s) is/are sent out to the applicant for execution, the 
demand notes for the balance of the premium and the fee(s) payable to the 
Land Registry for preparation and verification of memorial(s) (if applicable) 
and registration of the Document(s) will also be sent to the applicant for 
settlement. The applicant must execute the Document(s) and settle the 
demand notes on or before the due date specified in the letter being a date 
within 12 weeks of the Contract Date. Failure by the applicant to comply 
with these requirements will constitute a breach of contract and without 
prejudice to any other rights and remedies available to the Government, the 
administrative fee, LACO fee and the deposit paid will be forfeited. 
 
 
3. 
 
The procedures in paragraph 2 (vi) to (x) above as shown in the Simplified Procedural 
Flow-chart at Appendix I only apply to land transactions chargeable to premium. For land 

----- page 6/19 -----
- 6 -
transactions with no premium or nominal premium ( e.g. $1,000) payable, the Government may 
normally issue a single offer after the case is decided by DLC or officers with delegated 
authority with the nominal premium (if payable) demanded when the Document(s) are sent to 
the applicant for execution. A two-stage offer may be adopted depending on the circumstances 
of the cases. 
4. 
In case the due date for settlement of any payment or return of acceptance or
completion of an act required is a public holiday2 or a Saturday, the respective due date would
include the next following day, not being a public holiday or a Saturday. In case a Black
Rainstorm Warning Signal or a Tropical Cyclone Warning Signal No.8 or above or an
announcement on "extreme conditions" caused by super typhoon ( collectively "inclement
weather") is issued by the Government on the due date , the due date will be extended to the
next following working day not being a day with inclement weather.
5. 
Every application submitted to LandsD pursuant to this PN will be considered on its
own merits by LandsD at its absolute discretion acting in its capacity as a landlord. This PN
shall not constitute any representation on the part of the Government or other authorities or
give rise to any expectation on the part of the applicant that any application submitted to
LandsD will be processed or approved.
6. 
This PN is issued for general reference purposes only . . All rights to modify the
whole or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. The procedures and requirements may be
modified by the Government for special cases such as applications within New Development
Areas under the Lands Administration Office ("LAO") Practice Note No. 1/2022 or any other
cases as decided by the Government.
7. 
This PN takes immediate effect and supersedes LAO Practice Note Nos. 3/l999
(formerly known as "APSS 2/99"), 9/2000, 4/2001, 1/2006, 5/2006, 9/2006, 4/2007, 5/2007,
3/2008 and 3/2009 and 4/2009.
Director of Lands 
31 March 2023 . 
2 Public holiday is as defined in the Interpretation and General Clauses Ordinance (Cap. 1) 

----- page 7/19 -----
Simplified Procedural Flow-chart under the BBTO
Application received
Issue preliminary reply and demand note (“D/N”) for payment 
of  initial administrative fee & LACO fee (for land exchange) 
in 2 weeks3
Application validated
Circulation of proposal
Contact applicant for relevant information, if necessary
Application to be considered at DLC 
or by officers with delegated authority 
Offer of Provisional Basic Terms (“PBTO”)2 
for acceptance in 2 weeks3
Acceptance of PBTO by the applicant3
agreed in-
principle 
subject to 
the 
resolution 
of specified 
major 
issues 
and/or 
statutory 
procedures2
Premium assessment
(procedures shown in the flow chart at 
Annex A to Appendix V)
Offer of Binding Basic Terms (“BBTO”) and issue of demand 
note for the balance of administrative fee (if any), balance of 
LACO fee (if any) and 10% of premium as deposit 
for acceptance and payment in 4 weeks3
Execution of document(s) and the applicant’s payment of 
balance of premium and 
fee(s) payable to Land Registry (“LR Fee”)
Approved
Acceptance of BBTO by the applicant with the balance of 
administrative fee (if any), balance of LACO fee (if any) 
and deposit paid3
Reject application2
Appeal against 
premium in 4 weeks3
(procedures shown in 
the flow chart at 
Annex A and B to 
Appendix V)
Application deemed 
withdrawn
Resolved
D/N settled
D/N not settled
Disapproved
Basic terms 
(other then 
premium) 
agreed
Appendix I
3 weeks1
22 
weeks2
12 weeks 4
Conditional 
approval
Title checked in order or rectifiable    
for land exchange cases
Note : 
1. Time target under Lands Department Performance Pledge to issue preliminary reply within 3 weeks advising the
applicant if the application can be processed.
2. Time target under Lands Department Performance Pledge to advise the applicant within 22 weeks of the date of
the preliminary reply if the application is rejected; or a provisional offer is made; or the application is agreed in-
principle subject to the resolution of specified major issues and/or statutory.
3. The due date for payment of initial administrative fee & LACO fee; and acceptance (including appeal against
premium) will be specified in the relevant correspondence issued by Lands Department. In general 2 weeks are
allowed for the payment of initial administrative fee & LACO fee while 2 weeks and 4 weeks are allowed for
acceptance of PBTO and BBTO (including appeal against premium) respectively. The time limits are subject to
review from time to time.
4. The applicant is required to execute the document(s) and pay the balance of premium and LR Fee by any date
within 12 weeks of the Contract Date as required by the Government.

----- page 8/19 -----
- 1 - 
 
Appendix II 
 
Application Checklist 
 
 
A. 
Information / Documents that must be submitted1 : 
 
(i) 
 A detailed application letter clearly identifying the property2 
concerned, the variations being sought in respect of any terms and 
conditions of the existing lease conditions including the modification 
of any restrictions and development parameters included in the 
existing lease conditions (e.g. proposed user, maximum gross floor 
area, site coverage, number of storeys/building height, etc.) 
 
(ii) 
A copy of an up-to-date location / site plan on an appropriate scale 
(normally 1:1000) showing the property. 
 
(iii) 
A copy of the Town Planning Board approval letter for the proposed 
development, if applicable.                                                                
 
(iv) 
A copy3 of a computer printout containing the current ownership 
particulars of the property. 
 
(v) 
If submitted by an agent, a written authorization from the principal 
who should be the registered owner or a prospective purchaser4 of the 
property. 
 
(vi) 
If submitted by a prospective purchaser 4, a written consent from the 
registered owner. 
 
(vii) 
If submitted by an individual applicant, a written confirmation that he 
has read and understood the Note on Use of Personal Information 
Required in the Application at Appendix III to Land Administrative 
Office Practice Note No. 2/2023 and that he consents to disclosure of 
his personal data to other Government bureaux or departments for the 
purpose of considering and processing his application.  
 
B. 
Information / Documents that will facilitate the processing of 
the  application : 
 
(viii) 
An extract copy of the relevant Outline Zoning Plan (together with the 
explanatory notes, as appropriate) showing the property. 
 
(ix) 
For application involving portion(s) of a lot, or sub-divisions of any 
lots, to help expedite the verification of site areas and site boundaries, 
all relevant assignment plans or Deed Poll plans should be provided 
together with any relevant information relating to the delineation of 
the boundaries of these sub-divisions. 
 
(x) 
Sketch plans illustrating the proposed development, if available. 
 
 
 

----- page 9/19 -----
- 2 - 
 
 
(xi) 
 Copies of any approved submissions by other relevant authorities 
relating to the development proposal or other relevant study 
assessment reports, if available (e.g. Approved Master Layout Plans 
under the Town Planning Ordinance, Environmental /Traffic / 
Drainage Impact Assessment Reports etc.) 
 
Notes : 
1       Please put a tick in the relevant box if applicable unless otherwise specified; and delete 
as appropriate. 
 
2    
Property includes all lots involved in a lease modification or land exchange application. 
 
3 
The copy of the computer printout should be certified by the Land Registry or by the 
solicitor acting  for the applicant. Certification of the documents should be done not more 
than one month before submission of the application. Either hard copy or soft copy of 
the said document is acceptable. 
 
4  
A prospective purchaser is an intending purchaser under an existing Agreement for Sale 
and Purchase registered in the Land Registry.  

----- page 10/19 -----
Appendix III 
 
Note on Use of Personal Information Required  
in Applications for Land Transactions to Lands Department 
 
 
Purpose of Collection 
The personal data provided in application pursuant to this 
Practice Note and Appendix II will be used by the Lands 
Department for the purpose of considering and processing 
the application. The provision of the personal data is 
obligatory. If you do not provide the personal data, the 
Lands Department may not be able to process your 
application. 
 
Class of Transferees 
The personal data you provided may be disclosed to other 
Government bureaux/departments for the purpose 
mentioned above. 
 
Access to Personal Data The individual who is the subject of the personal data has 
a right of access and correction with respect to personal 
data as provided for in Sections 18 and 22 and Principle 6 
of Schedule 1 to the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance. 
Such right of access includes the right to obtain a copy of 
the personal data provided upon payment of the applicable 
charge. 
 
Enquiries 
Enquiries concerning the personal data collected, 
including the request for access and corrections, should be 
addressed to: 
Departmental Personal Data Controlling 
Officer of the Lands Department 
20/F., North Point Government Offices 
333 Java Road, North Point 
Hong Kong 
 
 

----- page 11/19 -----
Appendix IV 
 
Procedures and Points-to-note for Proving Good Title to the Lots to be 
Surrendered in Land Exchange 
 
(1) 
After payment of the initial administrative fee and the initial LACO fee, the 
applicant will be required by LACO to submit title deeds for all the lots to be 
surrendered for checking. 
 
(2) 
If a PBTO is made and the applicant accepts it, he should clear any 
outstanding title issues with LACO to render the Government in a position to make a 
formal offer of basic terms with a view to completion of the land transaction in 
accordance with the time frame specified in the BBTO. 
 
(3) 
If a BBTO is made and the applicant accepts it, he must comply with the 
following (if applicable) before the proposed land transaction can be completed: 
 
(a) 
If the lots to be surrendered are subject to existing mortgage(s) or legal 
charge(s), such mortgage(s) or legal charge(s) shall be discharged before the 
execution of the Document(s). A draft release must be submitted to LACO 
for approval within 8 weeks of the Contract Date. 
 
(b) 
If the lots to be surrendered are vested in different owners, the applicant must 
complete unification of title to the lots and arrange for the relevant 
instrument(s) completing such unification of title for adjudication, stamping 
and registration at the Land Registry within 8 weeks of the Contract Date. 
 
(c) 
If the title of the lots to be surrendered is not completely in order, the 
applicant must rectify all the title defects or prove good title to the lots to be 
surrendered to the satisfaction of LACO within 8 weeks of the Contract Date. 
 
(d) 
If the applicant is only the prospective purchaser of the lots concerned under 
a registered ASP, the applicant must complete the assignment of the lots and 
arrange for the assignment to be adjudicated, stamped and registered at the 
Land Registry within 8 weeks of the Contract Date. 
 

----- page 12/19 -----
Appendix V 
 
Premium Assessment and Appeal against Premium Assessment  
for Lease Modifications, Land Exchanges,  
Private Treaty Grants and Other Land Transactions 
 
 
(1) 
Procedures for Premium Assessment  
 
(i) 
Initiation of Premium Assessment 
 
 
Unless some essential procedures are still outstanding, the applicant’s 
acceptance of PBTO will normally follow by the next step of premium 
assessment immediately.1 To facilitate the preparation of premium assessment, 
the applicant may provide DLO/ Section with such information which he 
considers useful to the premium assessment within 2 weeks from the date of 
the PBTO. A submission prepared by DLO/Section will be provided to the 
Valuation Section in LandsD/HQ (“Valuation Section”) for action under 
paragraphs 1(ii) and 1(iii) below.  
 
 (ii) 
Preparation of the Premium Assessment Submission 
 
 
Upon receipt of a submission from DLO/Section, the Valuation Section will 
notify the applicant and prepare the valuation assessment to the Valuation 
Committee (V. Com.)/Valuation Conference (V. Conf.) (as the case may be) 
for consideration and approval. During this period, the applicant may submit 
additional information and/or clarifications he considers relevant and useful to 
the premium assessment directly to Valuation Section. For the avoidance of 
doubt, the Valuation Section has the absolute discretion on whether and how 
to consider the information on the understanding that this shall not cause delay 
in the referral of the premium assessment to V. Com./V. Conf. No negotiation 
on the premium assessment would be permitted. 
 
(iii) 
Consideration and Approval of the Premium Assessment 
 
 
The assessment will be considered by either V. Com. or V. Conf., as the case 
may be, to determine the premium. V. Conf. will also consider the appeal 
against premium assessment previously approved by V. Com. 
                                                 
1  For cases such as those requiring the completion of statutory procedure as a condition for execution of the land 
document, the actual timing of the premium assessment will be adjusted to take into account the progress of 
the statutory process involved 

----- page 13/19 -----
- 2 - 
 
 
 
(iv) 
Binding Basic Terms Offer 
 
 
After the premium has been approved by V. Com./V. Conf., BBTO including 
the premium amount will be issued to the applicant.  
 
(v) 
Appeal against the Premium 
 
 
 
If the applicant does not find the premium acceptable, the applicant may appeal 
against the premium assessment, by returning the appeal letter (“Appeal 
Letter”) enclosed at the BBTO within the period specified in the BBTO. Once 
the Appeal Letter is submitted, the premium stated at the BBTO will 
automatically lapse. Any revised assessment to be carried out will be at the 
market value prevailing at the time of re-assessment, which could be the same 
as, or higher or lower than, the premium originally offered.  
 
 
Upon receipt of the Appeal Letter, the Valuation Section will verbally advise 
the valuation approach and major parameters of premium assessment adopted 
by V. Com. or V. Conf., as the case may be, to the applicant for his preparation 
of the appeal report and counter-offer. The applicant must submit a counter-
offer of premium together with supporting information to justify the amount 
of the counter-offer within 3 months from the date of the Appeal Letter.  
 
(vi) 
Consideration of Appeal against Premium Assessment  
 
 
On receipt of an appeal against the premium assessment, DLO/Section will 
refer the case to the Valuation Section. Prior to submission of the revised 
premium assessment to V. Conf. for considering the premium appeal, case 
officer of the Valuation Section will communicate with the applicant on a non-
committal and without prejudice basis. The case officer will exchange views 
with the applicant on matters relevant to the premium assessment, which may 
include the basis of valuation, gross development values, construction costs of 
the development, comparables and relevant transaction evidence etc. Normally, 
at the final stage of premium assessment, the case officer will also enquire if 
the applicant will update his counter-offer of premium for the proposed 
transaction for incorporation into a submission to V. Conf. 
 
(vii) 
Attendance at Valuation Conference  
 
 
The applicant will be invited to attend the meeting of the V. Conf. in 

----- page 14/19 -----
- 3 - 
 
 
 
connection with his premium appeal and will have the opportunity to elaborate 
on any information and arguments which he may have already provided in 
support of a revised assessment. Deliberation of the case by members of the V. 
Conf. will take place after the applicant has left the meeting.  
 
 
To help expediting the premium appeal process, LandsD may consider 
acceding to a request made by the applicant to be informed of the revised 
premium figure as determined by the V. Conf. prior to the issue of the BBTO 
by DLO/Section.  Upon receipt of such request, the applicant may be invited 
to attend the next V. Conf. meeting (normally the following week) in which he 
will be informed of the revised premium figure on a without prejudice and 
subject to contract basis.  At that meeting, the applicant may comment on the 
revised premium figure.  Deliberation of the V. Conf. will take place after the 
applicant has left the meeting in case an improved counter-offer is made.   
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, all discussions with the applicant at the V. Conf. 
meetings are conducted on a without prejudice and subject to contract basis. 
LandsD reserves all its rights in making a BBTO which may be different from 
what have been discussed at the V. Conf. meetings.  
 
(viii) 
Issue of Revised Offer on Premium Assessment 
 
After the premium has been re-assessed, a revised BBTO will be made. After 
the revised BBTO is issued, the case officer will verbally advise the applicant 
of the major arguments/comparable transactions/parameters contained in the 
applicant’s submission that have not been accepted by the V. Conf.  The 
arrangement serves to facilitate the applicant’s consideration of the premium 
at the revised BBTO.  
 
(ix) 
Fast Track Procedure for Processing the Second and Third Appeals 
Against Premium Assessment  
 
(a) 
Triggering the Fast Track Procedure for Second and Third 
Appeal2 
 
                                                 
2  To support this fast track procedure, the revised BBTO (excluding the enclosures such as plans and special 
conditions, etc. Document(s)) will be sent by fax to the applicant whereas the original of the offer letter 
together with the enclosures Document(s) will be sent by post. Applicants may also arrange with the 
DLO/Section to collect the offer letter by hand. 

----- page 15/19 -----
- 4 - 
 
 
 
 
After a decision has been made by V. Conf. on the first and second 
premium appeal, a revised BBTO with the option for fast track 
procedure will be made by DLO/Section to the applicant.  If the 
applicant disagrees with the amount of the revised premium, he may 
submit an appeal in the usual way, i.e. by returning the Appeal Letter 
within the period specified in the revised BBTO and submitting a 
counter-offer of premium supported by justifications within three 
months from the date of Appeal Letter. Alternatively, the applicant 
may trigger the fast track procedure by returning the Appeal Letter 
and submitting a counter-offer supported by justifications within 12 
working days3 from the date of the revised BBTO. For the avoidance 
of doubt, the fast track procedure is limited and applicable to the 
second and third appeal only. To facilitate fast track action, the 
counter-offer together with the justifications shall be submitted 
concurrently to both DLO/Section and the Valuation Section.  
 
 
Once the Appeal Letter is submitted, the premium stated at the revised 
BBTO will automatically lapse. The revised premium will be assessed 
with reference to the market value prevailing at the time of re-
assessment, which could be the same as, or higher or lower than, the 
premium previously offered. 
 
(b) 
Counter Offers qualified for Fast Track Procedure 
 
 
Upon receipt of counter-offer together with justifications within the 
12-working days period as specified in paragraph 1(ix)(a) above, the 
Valuation Section will consider whether the counter-offer is qualified 
for processing under the fast track procedure. If it is considered not 
eligible, the case will join the normal queue for appeals and be dealt 
with under the normal procedure. In either situation, the applicant will 
be notified in writing accordingly not later than 7 working days from 
the expiry of the 12-working days period.  
 
 
While all cases that meet the requirement referred to in paragraph 
1(ix)(a) above for triggering the fast track procedure will generally be 
qualified, there are cases not qualified for processing under the fast 
track procedure including, examples where (a) no justifications have 
                                                 
3  The reference to working days excludes Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays. 

----- page 16/19 -----
- 5 - 
 
 
 
been submitted; (b) no fresh justifications are submitted i.e. repeated 
same justifications which have already been considered by V. Conf. 
at the previous appeal; (c) the justifications submitted would require 
follow up actions that could not be achieved within the time frame for 
processing appeals under the fast track procedure, e.g. policy 
clearance or legal advice would need to be obtained in the first place 
rendering actions for fast track impracticable; (d) amendments to the 
basic terms of the proposed transaction are being proposed, etc. 
 
 
For a qualified counter-offer to be processed under the fast track 
procedure, a revised BBTO will be issued by DLO/Section to the 
applicant within 24 working days from the date of receipt of the 
counter-offer by the Valuation Section. 
 
 
In the event that the justifications are not submitted simultaneously 
with the counter-offer but both the counter-offer and the justifications 
are submitted within the 12-working days period mentioned in 
paragraph 1(ix)(a) above, the 24-working days period will only count 
from the date when both the counter-offer and the justifications have 
been received by the Valuation Section.  The applicant will be so 
notified in writing accordingly not later than 7 working days from the 
expiry of the 12-working days period. 
 
(c) 
Consideration of the Second and third Appeal 
 
 
The procedures are similar to those set out in paragraph 1(vi) above. 
While clarifications on the justifications submitted may be made by 
the applicant, normally, any further new evidence submitted after the 
expiry of the 12-working days period mentioned in paragraph 1(ix)(a) 
above will unlikely be considered due to time constraint under the fast 
track procedure. 
 
(d) 
Attendance at Valuation Conference 
 
 
Applicant will be invited to attend the meeting of the V. Conf. to 
consider his counter-offer similar to the procedures as set out in 
paragraph 1(vii) above.   
 
 

----- page 17/19 -----
- 6 - 
 
 
 
(e) 
Issue of a Revised Offer 
 
 
The procedures are similar to those set out in paragraph 1(viii) above 
but the fast track procedure will no longer be available to the fourth 
appeal and any subsequent appeals. 
 
2. 
 
Flow charts which highlight the key steps referred to above are put at Annex A and B 
hereto.  
  

----- page 18/19 -----
Flow Chart 
(Premium Assessment Procedure for Lease Modifications, Land Exchanges, 
Private Treaty Grants and Other Land Transactions) 
DLO/Section receives acceptance of PBTO from Applicant 
DLO/Section to prepare and provide submission to Valuation 
Section at LandsD/HQ 
Valuation Section notifies Applicant upon receipt of DLO’s 
submission 
Valuation Section prepares valuation submission for 
V. Com./V. Conf. 
V. Com./V. Conf., as appropriate, decides on the premium 
assessment 
DLO/Section issues BBTO (including premium) to Applicant 
Applicant submits premium appeal to DLO/Section (with a 
copy to Valuation Section) 
Valuation Section will communicate with Applicant on a 
non-committal and without prejudice basis, exchanging views 
on matters relevant to the premium assessment 
Premium appeal submitted to V. Conf. 
-
Applicant invited to attend V. Conf. and has the opportunity 
to elaborate their arguments at V. Conf. 
-
V. Conf. will deliberate and decide on the case assessment 
after Applicant has left the meeting 
DLO/Section issues revised BBTO (including premium) to 
Applicant 
Applicant may submit information relevant 
to premium assessment to DLO/Section 
Applicant may submit additional  
information/ clarification relevant to 
premium assessment direct to Valuation 
Section. It is important that this be done 
without delaying the referral of the 
premium assessment to V. Com./V. Conf. 
Applicant accepts  
BBTO/ revised BBTO 
Case proceeds to execution 
Annex A to 
Appendix V 

----- page 19/19 -----
Flow Chart 
(Fast Track Procedure for Processing the Second and Third Appeals 
Relating to Premium Assessment for Lease Modifications, Land Exchanges, 
Private Treaty Grants and Other Land Transactions) 
Annex B to 
Appendix V 
V. Conf. decides on the first or second appeal
against premium assessment
Applicant triggers fast track procedure by 
submitting a counter offer supported by 
justifications concurrently to both DLO/Section and 
Valuation Section. 
(Note: Original offer will lapse automatically) 
DLO/Section issues BBTO (including premium) to 
Applicant by fax and by post 
Valuation Section receives the counter offer and 
considers whether it is qualified for processing 
under the fast track procedure and notifies the 
Applicant accordingly 
Qualified counter offer will be dealt with under the 
fast track procedure 
Valuation Section will communicate with Applicant 
on a no commitment and without prejudice basis, 
exchanging views on matters relevant to the premium 
assessment 
Counter offer submitted to V. Conf. 
- Applicant invited to attend V. Conf. and has the
opportunity to elaborate their arguments at the
V. Conf.
- V. Conf. will deliberate and decide on the case
assessment after Applicant has left the meeting
DLO/Section issues binding revised BBTO (including 
premium) to Applicant 
Applicant submits 
premium appeal 
under the normal 
procedure 
(Note: Original 
offer will lapse 
automatically) 
Valuation 
Section deals 
with the 
premium 
appeal under 
the normal 
procedure 
Counter 
offer not 
qualified for 
fast track 
procedure 
will be 
treated as 
normal 
premium 
appeal 
Applicant 
accepts 
binding 
BTO 
24 
working 
days 
12 working days 
For the 
3rd 
appeal 
For the 4th and any subsequent appeals 
or the Applicant decides not to opt for 
fast track procedures in the 3rd appeal 
