
----- page 1/3 -----
 
 
 
 
Practice Note 
 
                             Issue No. 2/2022 
 
 
 
Concession to Building Covenant Extensions 
 
 
 
 
In view of the impact of the fifth wave of the COVID-19 epidemic on the 
development sector, the Government announced on 14 March 2022 the grant of 
extension of the building covenant (“BC”)1 period2 specified under lease3 at nil 
premium up to six calendar months (“the Measure”).  This Practice Note sets out the 
details of the Measure. 
 
2. 
 
The Measure applies to all types of developments4 with unfulfilled BC as at 
14 March 2022, including those cases with the BC period already expired or not yet 
expired (as the case may be), and those cases with the BC period previously extended 
by Lands Department (“LandsD”) and such extended BC period has already expired 
or not yet expired (as the case may be).  For the avoidance of doubt, the Measure does 
not apply to a lease which is executed after 14 March 2022, nor to those developments 
the BC periods of which are not imposed by LandsD5.  For those cases with the BC 
period (or extended BC period, as the case may be) already expired as at 14 March 
2022, an extension up to six calendar months commencing on the expiry date or 1 
January 2022 whichever is the later will not be subject to payment of premium.  For 
the avoidance of doubt, the Measure does not apply to those cases with the BC already 
fulfilled before 1 January 2022 but the formality of the BC extension previously 
applied has not yet been completed.  
 
 
 
                                                 
1 
Sometimes, a provision on “commence to operate” (“CtO”) in addition to or in lieu of the BC may 
be imposed requiring the lot owner to complete and commence to use and operate the development 
on the lot as required under lease within a specified period. 
 
2  
For the purpose of this Practice Note, this includes the CtO period and such other associated 
formation and construction periods, e.g. formation of coloured areas and completion of the 
Government Accommodation, for which the expiry date for completion of the required works may 
or may not be the same as that of the BC period or CtO period. 
 
3  
All references to “lease” in this Practice Note cover Government Lease or Conditions of Sale / 
Grant / Exchange, etc. (as the case may be). 
 
4  
These include development under the Buildings Ordinance (Application to the New Territories) 
Ordinance (Cap. 121) and completion of building works for conversion of an entire existing 
industrial building as required under a special waiver, etc. 
 
5  
For example, the period within which the redevelopment of a lot is required to be completed and 
made fit for occupation is specified by the Lands Tribunal in the order for sale under the Land 
(Compulsory Sale for Redevelopment) Ordinance (Cap. 545). 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 

----- page 2/3 -----
- 2 - 
 
 
 
3. 
 
To streamline the implementation of the Measure, no application will be 
required from lot owners.  Pursuant to the Measure, LandsD will issue a letter 
offering an extension of the BC period as follows: 
 
(a) for eligible cases with the BC period (or extended BC period, as the case may be)  
not yet expired as at 14 March 2022, within 3 calendar months before the date of 
expiry of the BC period (or extended BC period, as the case may be), the BC 
period (or extended BC period, as the case may be) will be extended for six 
calendar months from the date of expiry of the BC period (or extended BC period, 
as the case may be) without requiring payment of premium; and 
 
(b) for eligible cases with the BC period (or extended BC period, as the case may be)  
already expired as at 14 March 2022, an extension up to six calendar months 
commencing on the expiry date or 1 January 2022 whichever is the later without 
requiring payment of premium. 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, premium already paid for any extensions of BC period 
already granted would not be refunded. 
 
4. 
 
Any period of extension beyond the extension period under the Measure may 
be subject to payment of premium in accordance with the established practice 6.  
When determining the year of extension with reference to paragraph 3 of LandsD LAO 
Practice Note No. 2/2021, the period of extension (up to six calendar months if granted) 
under the Measure would be disregarded7. 
 
5.   
Nothing in this Practice Note shall in any way fetter or affect or prejudice 
the rights of the Government, the Director of Lands and their officers under the 
relevant lease or their rights as lessor or landlord.  All such rights are hereby reserved 
and that nothing in this Practice Note including any words and expressions used shall 
in any way be construed as any variation or waiver of any provisions under the relevant 
lease and nothing herein shall affect, prejudice or bind the Government in relation to 
interpretation or enforcement of the terms and conditions of the relevant lease or 
otherwise.  The Government will at its sole and absolute discretion decide the 
applicability of the Measure to each individual case.  This Practice Note shall not 
constitute any representation on the part of the Government or give rise to any 
expectation on the part of the lot owners that an extension of any BC period will be 
granted. 
                                                 
6    As an illustration, if the original BC period stipulated under lease will expire on 31 March 2022 
and a 1-year extension of the BC period to 31 March 2023 has been applied for, the first six 
months of extension (from 1 April 2022 to 30 September 2022) may be granted at nil premium 
under the Measure, while the remaining six-month period (from 1 October 2022 to 31 March 
2023), if granted, will be subject to payment of premium assessed at 2% p.a. of land value with 
reference to paragraph 3 of LandsD Lands Administration Office (“LAO”) Practice Note No. 
2/2021.  
 
7  
Based on the illustration in Footnote 6, if a further six-month extension up to 30 September 2023 
is subsequently applied for and granted, the premium for that 2nd extension will still be assessed 
at 2% p.a. of land value as if the six-month period (from 1 April 2023 to 30 September 2023) fell 
within the 1st year of extension from the original expiry date of the BC period under the sliding 
scale.  This is because the six-month period extended at nil premium under the Measure is 
disregarded for the purpose of premium assessment for BC period extension. 

----- page 3/3 -----
