
----- page 1/17 -----
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note 
Issue No.   3/2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Plan Submissions 
Use of Computer for Mathematical Calculation of Areas 
 
 
 
The purpose of this Practice Note is to advise on the electronic format and the 
pre-requisites for checking of area calculations electronically if Authorized Person 
(AP) adopts the use of computer for calculating of floor areas of buildings in 
preparation of general building plans which will be referred to the Lands Department 
(LandsD) by the Buildings Department (BD) under the Centralized Processing 
System. 
 
2.  
This Practice Note is issued in relation to paragraph 16 and Appendix F of the 
Practice Note for Authorized Persons, Registered Structural Engineers and Registered 
Geotechnical Engineers (PNAP) ADM-19 issued by BD on the subject ‘Use of 
Computer for Mathematical Calculations’.  The said PNAP gives advice on the 
electronic format and the pre-requisites for plan checking of area calculations in 
Computer-Aided Design (CAD) drawing files electronically. 
 
3.  
For the avoidance of doubt, the issuance of this Practice Note does not affect 
the current practice of LandsD that any approval or disapproval of general building 
plans under lease will be given in respect of the hard copies of the general building 
plans only.  Hence, submission of hard copies of the general building plans is still 
required. 
 
 
Requirement on Electronic Format and Pre-requisites 
 
4.  
To facilitate checking of the area calculations under lease, AP should follow 
the guidelines at Annex 1 when preparing the CAD drawing files stored in non-
rewritable DVD-ROM diskette(s) (DVD-ROM).  In addition to this requirement, AP 
should follow the guidelines at Annex 3 to prepare a full set of floor plans in hard 
copy which is identical to the floor layout plans in the general building plans and duly 
coloured to show the extent of site coverage (SC), transfer plate and gross floor area 
(GFA) accountable and non-accountable areas under lease (Coloured Building Plans) 
to facilitate compliance checking of area calculations under lease.  AP should submit 
the Coloured Building Plans together with the general building plans to LandsD 
through BD under the Centralized Processing System.  The extent of the SC, transfer 
- 1 - 
 

----- page 2/17 -----
plate, GFA accountable and non-accountable areas as shown on the Coloured 
Building Plans should be in line with the GFA/SC calculations and GFA/SC diagrams 
in the GBP submissions.  Otherwise, the GBP submission may be rejected without 
further checking due to the incorrect information. 
 
5. 
If the submission in the DVD-ROM is found not conforming to the minimum 
requirements as set out in paragraphs 3.1 to 3.4 of Annex 1, the AP will be informed 
by LandsD to replace the DVD-ROM and for the purpose of fulfillment of our 
performance pledge, the time specified in our performance pledge is deemed to have 
been “frozen” at this point. If a replacement DVD-ROM is received within 7 calendar 
days from the date of notification, the time of our pledge period will count again 
immediately upon receipt of the replacement DVD-ROM.  If a replacement DVD-
ROM is received after 7 calendar days, the pledge time will be re-set afresh as a new 
start on the date of receipt of the replacement DVD-ROM.  In the event no 
replacement DVD-ROM is received before the expiry of the pledge time, the general 
building plans submission will be rejected without further scrutiny on the ground of 
insufficient information. Information shown in both the soft and hard copies of the 
plans submitted for approval must be identical to each other.  Otherwise, plans may be 
rejected without further checking on grounds of incorrect information.  
 
 
Review 
 
6.  
The above practice will be reviewed in 6 months’ time from date of 
implementation. Depending on the result of the review, LandsD will decide on 
whether further revamping of the practice is required and/or such other actions 
(including but not limited to the acceptance of Building Information Modeling on 
GFA calculation) as may be considered appropriate.  The guidelines at Annexes 1 and 
3 will also be reviewed taking into the experience gained.  Suggestions from the 
industry and the professional bodies to facilitate and/or to improve the electronic 
vetting procedures are always welcome. 
 
 
Application and Effective Date 
 
7.  
This Practice Note will apply to all new general building plans submissions 
(including subsequent amendments or major revisions and re-submissions) for 
development and redevelopment projects received by LandsD through the Centralized 
Processing System on or after 1st February 2019.  For the general building plans 
submissions received by LandsD through the Centralized Processing System before 
the said date, they would continue to be processed in the usual manner. 
 
8.  
For other amendment, addition and alteration plans, annotations and 
dimensions of the areas concerned are required to be indicated on the hard copies of 
the general building plans for checking purpose. Submission of a new DVD-ROM nor 
Coloured Building Plans is NOT necessary.  Such DVD-ROM, if submitted, will not 
be considered when processing the amendment, addition and alteration plans for 
approval under the lease conditions. 
 
 
- 2 - 
 

----- page 3/17 -----
9. 
Lands Administration Office Practice Note Issue No. 8/2006 IS hereby 
superseded. 
(Thomas CHAN) 
Director of Lands 
26 November 2018 
Annex 1 : Guidelines on Use of Computer for Mathematical Calculation of Areas 
Annex 2: List of Layer Names for LandsD's Area Calculation under Lease 
Annex 3 : Guidelines on Preparation and Submission of Coloured Building Plans 
- 3-

----- page 4/17 -----
Annex 1 
LAO PN 3/2018 
 
Guidelines on Use of Computer for 
Mathematical Calculation of Areas 
 
1.  
For area calculations computed electronically, soft copies of the building plans 
containing the area diagram layer(s) are required to facilitate verification of the 
calculations. LandsD generally makes reference to the Notes on Submission Drawing 
Standards in Electronic Format at Appendix F of PNAP ADM-19. However, to 
facilitate checking of the area calculations under lease, AP should further observe the 
minimum requirements stipulated in these Guidelines. 
 
2.  
When the minimum requirements set out in the following paragraphs are 
complied with and clearly shown in the submitted CAD drawing files, diagrammatic 
breakdowns and details on calculation of the gross floor area, site coverage and green 
features area, etc. would not be required to be included in the plan submission. For the 
avoidance of doubt, annotation and dimension of the areas concerned are required to 
be indicated on individual floor plans for checking purpose. 
 
3. 
For approval purpose, hard copies of the general building plans showing floor 
layouts, area diagrams and calculations without breakdowns are required. 
Information shown in both the soft and hard copies of the plans submitted for 
approval must be identical to each other. Otherwise, plans may be rejected 
without further checking on grounds of incorrect information. It is advisable to 
ensure the minimum requirements are met before making plan submissions. 
 
3.1  Format and Software Version 
 
(a) The electronic copy of the plan submission with the calculations should be 
prepared in an accepted format capable of being verified by AutoCAD or other 
software accepted by the Director of Lands. 
 
(b) The electronic copy of the plan submission should be stored in non-rewritable 
DVD-ROM diskette(s). Except otherwise agreed by the Director of Lands all 
other electronic submission medias are not acceptable. 
 
 
1 
 

----- page 5/17 -----
(c) CAD drawings using AutoCAD version R14 or later or other software 
versions announced by the Director of Lands are acceptable. 
 
(d) CAD files should be saved in “.dwg” format only. All other compressed or 
zipped file formats are not acceptable. 
 
(e) Title blocks completed with drawing number showing revision legends, 
site/project title, drawing title etc. should be inserted in every drawing for 
identification purpose. 
 
3.2  Referencing System 
(a) Each CAD file should contain one hard copy drawing only, default zoom to full 
drawing extent.  
 
(b) All information for approval should be contained in the same drawing file. The 
need to cross-reference or hyper-link with another CAD file to enable 
verification of the area calculations in the DVD-ROM is not acceptable except in 
the following situation:  
 
- 
where the layering number and the system are limited due to software 
constraint, limited referencing system might be used provided that all 
information and model files which compose the final drawings are clearly 
visible and intact when files are open in the computer. A clear and systematic 
path trial in hard copy format highlighting the list of file(s) for area checking 
purpose should be provided to facilitate the verification exercise. All drawing 
files and model files area to put into the same folder to ensure coherent path 
recognition. Cross-referencing and hyper-linking within folder should be 
kept to the minimum.  
 
(c) Naming and numbering of drawing files in the hard copy should be identical to 
those in the submitted electronic version. 
 
(d) A completed hard and soft copy of the drawing index listing all file names, 
drawing numbers with brief description on location and contents of the submitted 
drawings should be provided. Drawing under different version must carry a 
revision letter (e.g. A to Z) for identification purpose. For large and complicated 
project involving numerous drawing versions/amendments, a revision legend 
should also be provided as well. 
2 
 

----- page 6/17 -----
 
(e) AP should list out the name(s) of the drawing file(s) in the DVD-ROM that 
contains the information for area checking under lease conditions in his covering 
letter attached to the general building plan submission. Further, AP should 
certify in his covering letter that the computations and deductions of gross floor 
area and site coverage under lease are derived directly from CAD applications 
without manual input. If such required information is not clearly provided in the 
covering letter, the plans will be rejected without further checking. 
 
3.3  Layering Organization – Layer Name Convention 
(a) CAD drawing files including floor plans, tables and calculations, etc. should 
contain all information identical to their hard copy. Each file should 
accommodate different elements such as floor layout plans, usable floor area, 
gross floor area and dimension etc. into the relevant layers.  
 
(b) To facilitate checking of the area calculations, general building plans should 
contain gross floor area and other areas diagram layer(s) for verification and 
calculations. To adopt the rules under CAD Standard for Works Project (CSWP) 
of the Development Bureau (Works Branch), AP should name the relevant layers 
according to the list of layer names for LandsD’s area calculation as specified in 
Annex 2. CAD file drawings not following the layer name convention will be 
rejected without further checking. 
 
(c) Layering organization of the file(s) in hard copy format should be submitted. As 
the list in Annex 2 is by no means exhaustive, if more layering description is 
required in the submitted general building plans, AP could lengthen the layer 
name convention at Annex 2 but a legendary description concerning the 
additional layer(s) should be provided. In any event, all layering organizations 
must be clearly shown in his covering letter, otherwise, the plans will be rejected 
without further checking. 
 
(d) CAD file for the floor plan should contain all elements and information that have 
to be shown on the drawings to facilitate approval, including inter alias, the area 
and the dimension layers. Elements such as lighting, electric appliances and the 
like where approval from the Director of Lands is not required under lease 
should not be shown in the submitted drawings. 
 
 
3 
 

----- page 7/17 -----
3.4  Presentation Style 
(a) Drawing Scale – Drawing objects for checking and area calculation including 
area diagrams and dimensions should be drawn in true size (i.e. 1 drawing unit = 
1 mm or metre) with precision rounded up to the nearest mm unit and in “model” 
space. The drawing objects not drawn in true size, in “model” space nor in 
metric unit will be rejected without further checking. The default scale adopted 
for area checking electronically in LandsD’s customized software is in 
milli-metre. 
 
(b) Polyline – All line drawings intended for area calculations in area layer(s) should 
be in closed polyline diagram by using the “Close” option in creating the closing 
segment of the line drawings. Each closed polyline diagram should correspond to 
one area diagram and vice versa. CAD file drawings containing any open 
polyline diagram, self intersecting area diagram or duplicated area diagram will 
be rejected and the plans will be rejected without further checking. 
 
(c) Dimension – All dimensions should be true dimensions generated automatically 
by the software and laid in the specified layer i.e. Dimension Layer. Text figures 
or figures manually inserted, amended or constructed (collectively referred as 
“typed-in dimension(s)” for calculation purpose in the CAD file are not 
acceptable. CAD file drawings containing any typed-in dimension(s) will be 
rejected and the plans will be rejected without further checking. 
 
(d) Decimal Places of Areas: All areas should be presented in m2 units and with 
precision rounded up to 3 decimal places, otherwise the plans will be rejected 
without further checking. 
 
4.  
Text style is not compulsory. Conventional text fonts are suggested. Common 
type such as “Romans” font is recommended for use in the text. 
 
 
4 
 

----- page 8/17 -----
Annex 2 
LAO PN 3/2018 
 
List of Layer Names for LandsD’s Area Calculation under Lease 
 
Note 
1. The list of layer names below is generated based on the rules under CAD 
Standards for Works Projects (CSWP) of the Development Bureau (Works 
Branch).  AP should refer to the concerned CSWP Practice Note for further 
details about the rules laid down. 
 
2. The prefix “ADA” means the Agent Responsible Codes (ARC) registered in ARC 
tables 
kept 
by 
Architectural 
Services 
Department 
(please 
see 
www.devb.gov.hk/cswp). Each AP/agent has his/her own ARC codes e.g. ADA = 
Architectural Services Department – Architectural.  The customized program of 
LandsD ignores the ARC by default when checking the area calculation 
electronically. 
 
3. The list of layer names may not be exhaustive. If a new deduction layer in 
addition to the descriptions listed below is required, the AP may lengthen the layer 
name convention to cater for other deductions not specified in the list 4. New 
layer names may be added to the list when appropriate. 
 
Non-Domestic SC calculations 
Layer Name 
Description 
 
ADA08610  
Area for SC calculations  
ADA08615  
Area to be deducted from SC calculations  
ADA0861A  
Green features under Joint Practice Note Nos. 1 & 2  
ADA0861B  
Curtain walling system  
ADA0861C  
Refuse chambers, E&M provisions, plant rooms for A/C or 
heating system, lift shaft area allowed under PNAP APP-89, etc.  
ADA0861D  
Private car parking spaces, loading and unloading spaces  
ADA0861E-Z  
Miscellaneous Deduction (reserve layers to cater for future needs. 
I and O not to be used)  
 
 
 
1 
 

----- page 9/17 -----
Domestic SC calculations 
Layer Name 
Description 
 
ADA08620  
Area for SC calculations  
ADA08625  
Area to be deducted from SC calculations  
ADA0862A 
Green features under Joint Practice Note Nos. 1 & 2  
ADA0862B  
Curtain walling system  
ADA0862C 
Caretaker’s/watchmen’s office 
ADA0862D 
Caretaker’s/watchmen’s quarters 
ADA0862E 
Recreational facilities 
ADA0862F  
Owners’ corporation / owners’ committee office  
ADA0862G  
Refuse chambers, E&M provisions, plant rooms for A/C or 
heating system, lift shaft area allowed under PNAP APP-89, etc.  
ADA0862H  
Private car parking spaces, loading and unloading spaces  
ADA0862J-Z  
Miscellaneous Deduction (reserve layers to cater for future needs. 
I and O not to be used)  
 
Non-Domestic GFA calculations 
Layer Name 
Description 
 
ADA08640  
Area for GFA calculations  
ADA08645  
Area to be deducted from GFA calculations  
ADA0864A  
Green features under Joint Practice Note Nos. 1 & 2  
ADA0864B  
Curtain walling system  
ADA0864C  
Refuse chambers, E&M provisions, plant rooms for A/C or 
heating system, lift shaft area allowed under PNAP APP-89, etc.  
ADA0864D  
Private car parking spaces, loading and unloading spaces  
ADA0864E 
Covered walkways 
ADA0864F  
Mail Rooms / Nest Letter Boxes (only for commercial and 
industrial building)  
ADA0864G  
Residential Care Homes for the Elderly  
ADA0864H 
Government Accommodation 
ADA0864J  
Public transport terminus  
ADA0864K  
Hotel back of house facilities  
ADA0864L-Z  
Miscellaneous Deduction (reserve layers to cater for future needs. 
I and O not to be used)  
 
2 
 

----- page 10/17 -----
Domestic GFA calculations 
Layer Name 
Description 
 
ADA08650  
Area for GFA calculations.  
ADA08655  
Area to be deducted from GFA calculations.  
ADA0865A  
Green features under Joint Practice Note Nos. 1 & 2  
ADA0865B  
Curtain walling system  
ADA0865C 
Bay windows 
ADA0865D 
Caretaker’s/watchmen’s office 
ADA0865E 
Caretaker’s/watchmen’s quarters 
ADA0865F 
Recreational facilities under LAO PN 4/2000(B) 
ADA0865G  
Owners’ corporation / owners’ committee office 
ADA0865H  
Refuse chambers, E&M provisions, plant rooms for A/C or 
heating system, lift shaft area allowed under PNAP APP-89, etc.  
ADA0865J  
Private car parking spaces, loading and unloading spaces  
ADA0865K 
Covered walkways 
ADA0865L  
Logistic service room (only for residential building)  
ADA0865M  
Residential Care Homes for the Elderly  
ADA0865P 
Area to be deducted from Recreational facilities 
ADA0865N-Z  
Miscellaneous Deduction (reserve layers to cater for future needs. 
I and O not to be used)  
 
NOFA calculations 
Layer Name 
Description 
 
ADA08670  
Area for NOFA calculations.  
ADA08675  
Area to be deducted from NOFA calculations.  
ADA0867A-Z  
Miscellaneous Deduction (reserve layers to cater for future needs. 
I and O not tobe used)  
 
UFA calculations 
Layer Name 
Description 
 
ADA08690  
Area for UFA calculations  
ADA08695  
Area to be deducted from UFA calculations  
ADA0869A  
Active Recreational Facilities under LAO PN 4/2000 (obsolete) 
ADA0869B  
Passive Recreational Facilities under LAO PN 4/2000 (obsolete) 
3 
 

----- page 11/17 -----
ADA0869C 
Area for greenery calculations 
ADA0869D 
Area to be deducted from greenery calculations 
ADA0869E 
Area for water feature, green paver and other 50% accountable 
green areas calculations 
ADA0869F 
Area to be deducted from water feature, green paver and other 
50% accountable green areas calculations 
ADA0869G 
Area for green roof calculations 
ADA0869H 
Area to be deducted from green roof calculations 
ADA0869J-Z  
Miscellaneous Deduction (reserve layers to cater for future needs. 
I and O not to be used)  
 
Open Space calculations 
Layer Name 
Description 
 
ADA08600  
Area for Open Space calculations  
ADA08605  
Area to be deducted from Open Space calculations  
ADA0860A-Z  
Miscellaneous Deduction (reserve layers to cater for future needs. 
I and O not to be used)  
 
Dimension 
Layer Name 
Description 
 
ADA086_8 
Dimension layer  
 
 
 
4 
 

----- page 12/17 -----
Annex 3 
LAO PN 3/2018 
 
Guidelines on Preparation and Submission of Coloured Building Plans 
 
1.  
To facilitate compliance checking of area calculations under lease, AP should 
submit a full set of floor plans duly coloured to show the extent of site coverage (SC), 
transfer plate, gross floor area (GFA) accountable and non-accountable areas under 
lease (Coloured Building Plans).  Sample Coloured Building Plans are attached at 
Appendix 1 for illustration purpose.  One hard copy of Coloured Building Plans 
should be submitted to LandsD through BD under the Centralized Processing System 
together with the general building plan (GBP) submission. Requirements as set out in 
the following paragraphs should be observed.  Plans may be rejected on grounds of 
insufficient information if these requirements are not complied with.   
 
 
Colour Code 
 
2.  
All categories of GFA such as office, retail/commercial, hotel and residential 
GFA under lease should be coloured in accordance with the standard colour code at 
Appendix 2.  In other circumstances, e.g. sites restricted for industrial purposes, sites 
with provision of government accommodations as required under the lease, AP may 
propose additional colours that are required to indicate GFA categories other than 
those appeared in the standard colour code and AP should clearly mark in his 
correspondence with LandsD the use of additional colours and the corresponding 
categories of GFA.  AP may suitably adjust the level of colour transparency such 
that the colouring on the plans will not visually block the details of the floor plans. 
1 
 

----- page 13/17 -----
 
 
Format 
 
3.  
Only hard copy of the Coloured Building Plans will be accepted. The 
Coloured Building Plans should be printed in the same scale and size as the 
corresponding floor plans in the GBP submission and should contain all information 
including dimensions and annotations identical to the corresponding floor plans.  
 
4. 
The extent of the SC, transfer plate, GFA accountable and non-accountable 
areas as shown on the Coloured Building Plans should be in line with the GFA/SC 
calculations and GFA/SC diagrams in the GBP submissions.  Otherwise, the GBP 
submission may be rejected without further checking due to the incorrect information. 
 
 
Appendix 1: Sample Drawings of Coloured Building Plans  
Appendix 2: Standard Colour Code  
 
 
2 
 

----- page 14/17 -----
Plan 1 
Appendix 1 of Annex 3, LAO PN 3/2018

----- page 15/17 -----
Plan 2 
Appendix 1 of Annex 3, LAO PN 3/2018

----- page 16/17 -----
1 
 
Appendix 2 of Annex 3 
LAO PN 3/2018 
 
Standard Colour Code for Coloured Building Plans 
 
List of standard colour code: 
 
Area Category 
Colour on Coloured Building Plans 
Colour 
True colour 
(RGB) 
Line of transfer plate 
 
Red 
thick dash line 
227, 100, 102 
Line of site coverage 
 
Blue 
thick dash line 
73, 167, 209 
Building line above 
 
Black  
thick dash line 
0, 0, 0 
Residential area 
  
Orange 
255, 164 ,25 
Residential area - balcony / utility platform 
  
Edged with orange 
255, 164, 25 
Residential area - caretaker’s / watchmen’s 
office 
  
Light brown 
hatched black 
208, 177, 149 
Residential area - caretaker’s / watchmen’s 
quarters 
  
Light brown 
208, 177, 149 
Residential area - owners’ corporation /  
owners' committee office 
  
Light brown 
cross hatched black 
208, 177, 149 
Residential area - recreational facilities 
  
Pink 
255, 167, 255 
 
 

----- page 17/17 -----
2 
 
 
 
List of standard colour code (cont’d): 
 
Area Category 
Colour on Coloured Building Plans 
Colour 
True colour 
(RGB) 
Office area 
  
Red 
hatched black 
227, 100, 102 
Retail / commercial area 
  
Red 
227, 100, 102 
Hotel area 
  
Light blue 
144, 214, 236 
GFA non-accountable area (deducted area within 
GFA accountable area) 
  
Blue 
73, 167, 209 
GFA non-accountable area (outside GFA 
accountable area) 
  
Yellow 
255, 237, 61 
 
 
 
