
----- page 1/3 -----
iiij] 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 3/2023 
Relaxation of the Requirement for Applying for 
Offensive Trades Licences for Specified Food Businesses 
This Practice Note promulgates the streamlined arrangement for applying for an 
offensive trades licence ("OT Licence") for eligible food businesses. 
Offensive Trades Licence granted upon application 
2. 
Many of the old Government leases contain the offensive trades clause which reads 
as follows:-
"that (the said Lessee) or any other person or persons shaiI not nor will during the 
continuance of this demise, use, exercise, or follow, in or upon the demised 
premises or any part thereof, the trade or business of a Brazier, Slaughterman, Soap-
maker, Sugar-baker, Fellmonger, Melter of Tallow, Oilman, Butcher, Distiller, 
Victualler or Tavern-keeper, Blacksmith, Nightman, Scavenger or any other noisy 
noisome or offensive trades or business whatever without the previous licence of Her 
said Majesty signified in writing by the Governor or other person duly authorized 
in that behalf' 
3. 
Owners of a lot or premises held under Government leases containing the offensive 
trades clause have to apply to the Lands Department ("LandsD") for an OT Licence to carry 
on the trades of sugar baker, oilman, butcher, victualler and tavern-keeper (collectively "the 
five trades") contained in the offensive trades clause. In general, LandsD deals with 
applications for OT Licence for cases involving the whole of the lot in the following manner:-
(i) 
Upon the grant of the OT Licence, the applicant can carry on the five trades on 
the concerned lot which were previously restricted. As hotel use will be 
permitted as a result of removing the restriction on "tavern-keeper", the terms 
of the OT Licence will include conditions restricting' the sale of any hotel 
except as a whole and restricting the letting of hotel rooms for not more 
than one year. The applicant should clearly delineate the portion of the lot 
or building to be used for hotel purpose on the building plans. 
(ii) 
Any OT Licence, if granted, will be subject to payment of a fee, which is 
currently $32,600 per lot. This fee is subject to review from time to time. 
LandsD aims to make an offer within two months from the date of receiving 
an application for straightforward cases. 

----- page 2/3 -----
-2-
4. 
For lots in multi-ownership and premises comprising only where the application 
covers one or more units in a building, subject to payment of the administrative fee mentioned 
in para. 3(ii) hereof, an OT Licence may be issued to the registered owner ofthe premises to 
allow him to carry on the five trades on the premises. The OT Licence will contain a condition 
prohibiting the use of the premises for hotel purpose. 
5. 
Applicants have to submit their applications with a computer printout containing the 
current ownership particulars of the subject property. The computer printout should be 
certified by the Land Registry or by the solicitor acting for the applicant not more than one 
month before submission of the application. Applicants may submit either hard copy or soft 
copy (such as "pdf') of the said document. 
6. 
Applicants should also note that obtaining OT Licences from LandsD does not 
absolve their obligations to obtain all other necessary permissions, approvals, permits and 
licences, whether statutory or contractual. 
Relaxed requirement of applying for OT Licences for specified food businesses 
7. 
To foster a business facilitating environment, LandsD would relax the requirement 
of applying for an OT Licence for the operation of a business which requires one or more of 
the following eleven types of licences granted by the Director of Food and Environmental 
Hygiene or the Liquor Licensing Board respectively (collectively "the Statutory Licences"): 
(a) 
General Restaurant Licence; 
(b) 
Light Refreshment Restaurant Licence; 
(c) 
Bakery Licence; 
(d) 
Food Factory Licence; 
(e) 
Fresh Provision Shop Licence; 
(f) 
Frozen Confection Factory Licence; 
(g) 
Milk Factory Licence; 
(h) 
Siu Mei and Lo Mei Shop Licence; 
(i) 
Composite Food Shop Licence; 
(j) 
Liquor Licence; and 
(k) 
Club Liquor Licence. 
8. 
Under the new arrangement, upon the grant of any of the Statutory Licences in 
respect of a lot or premises which is subject to the offensive trades clause under the 
Government lease, an OT Licence would be deemed to be granted to the owner of the 
concerned lot or premises by LandsD. The new arrangement shall take effect from the date 
of this Practice Note and apply to cases where the following three criteria ("the Criteria") 

----- page 3/3 -----
- 3 -
are satisfied:-
(a) 
the concerned lot or premises is not covered by an OT Licence; 
(b) 
the proposed use of the concerned lot or premises falls within one or more 
of the five trades; and 
( c) 
the concerned lot or premises does not form part of a hotel development and 
shall remain so during the term of the relevant Statutory Licence(s). 
9. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the OT Licence deemed to be granted under the new 
arrangement shall be co-terminus with the relevant Statutory Licence(s). Upon the expiration 
or cancellation of all relevant Statutory Licence(s) in respect of the concerned lot or premises 
or in the event that the concerned lot or premises no longer satisfY all the Criteria, the or 
Licence deemed to be granted under the new arrangement shall automatically terminate and 
cease to have effect and the concerned lot or premises shall in all respects be subject to all the 
provisions, restrictions and covenants in the Government lease, including the offensive trades 
clause in its entirety. 
10. 
Nothing in this Practice Note shall in any way fetter or affect or prejudice the 
exercise of the rights of the Government, LandsD and their officers under the relevant statutes 
and Government leases. 
11. 
Nothing in this Practice Note, including any words and expressions used, shall in 
any way be construed as any variation or waiver of any provisions under Government lease 
or affect or bind the Government in relation to the interpretation or enforcement of the terms 
and conditions of the relevant Government lease or otherwise. 
12. 
Moreover, any OT Licence, whether issued upon application or deemed to be granted 
under the new arrangement, shall not affect other terms, covenants and conditions in the 
Government lease, the Buildings Ordinance, the Town Planning Ordinance and other 
legislations or otherwise, and shall not prejudice any rights and remedies of other parties 
under the deed of mutual covenant of the building involved (if applicable). 
13. 
LandsD Lands Administration Office Practice Note No. 3/2021 as varied and 
modified by LandsD Lands Administration Office Practice Note No. 112023 is hereby 
superseded. 
First issued 
August 2007 (PN 6/2007 - superseded) 
Last revision 
November 2021 (PN 3/2021 - superseded) 
This revision 
March 2023 
Cfi<Lvl 
(Andrew LA!) 
Director of Lands 
31 March 2023 
