
----- page 1/11 -----
 
 
 
- 1 - 
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note  
 
 
   
Issue No. 3/2019 
 
 
 
Application for Waivers for 
Buffer Floor and Lower Floors 
of an Existing Industrial Building 
 
 
Buffer floor may be required in an existing industrial building1 in order to 
completely separate non-industrial uses (which require a waiver or modification of the user 
restriction under lease2) in the lower floors from industrial uses in the upper floors.  Under the 
prevailing fire safety requirements, the buffer floor may be used for the parking or for the 
loading or unloading of motor vehicles or for occupation by electrical and mechanical plant 
rooms or be left vacant for refuge use.   
 
2. 
As announced in the 2018 Policy Address, with due regard to public safety, the 
permissible uses of buffer floor may be widened to improve the prospect of partial conversion.  
In this regard, an owner of a buffer floor (existing or to be converted) may apply for a waiver 
(“the Waiver”) for temporary change of use of such floor under lease to allow it to be used as 
telecommunications exchange centre 3 and computer or data processing centre 4 and the 
temporary change of use of the floors immediately below it5 for non-industrial use en bloc (the 
                                                 
1   An industrial building refers to a flatted factory building, industrial-office building and other building built for 
industrial use where the lot on which the building stands, under the terms of its lease, shall not be used for any 
purpose other than for industrial or godown purposes or both.   Such industrial buildings do not include special 
factories such as those located in industrial estates, storage premises in container terminals and flatted factories 
built by the Hong Kong Housing Authority, and those buildings on lots supporting specific industries such as 
cargo handling uses, ship building and repairing, oil storage and refining and production of associated 
chemical by-product, manufacture of polystyrene plastics, manufacture and storage of chlorine, hydrogen and 
textile chemicals, etc. 
 
2  All references to “lease” in this Practice Note cover Government Lease or Conditions of Sale / Grant / 
Exchange, etc. (as the case may be) and “leases” shall be construed accordingly. 
 
3  Telecommunications exchange centre means any place or premises where telecommunications exchange 
equipment and facilities are installed for the provision of public telecommunications services such as fixed 
telephone services and mobile telephone and data services. The determination of the Director of Lands as to 
whether a particular use falls within the meaning of “telecommunications exchange centre” shall be final.  
 
4 
Computer or data processing centre means any premises for computing or data processing with a functional 
relationship with business activities. It is a facility for housing computer systems, servers, telecommunications 
equipment, and associated support components in a secured and controlled environment. The associated 
support components, depending on scale, generally include electrical and mechanical facilities such as 
uninterruptible power supply, power distribution, standby power generation, heat rejection, computer room 
air-conditioning, fire suppression, environmental control and security control.  The determination of the 
Director of Lands as to whether a particular use of the Premises or any part thereof falls within the meaning of 
“computer or data processing centre” shall be final.  
 
5  For the purpose of this Practice Note, any waiver application of an existing industrial building for conversion 
of the buffer floor shall include application for conversion of all the floors immediately below it (subject to a 

----- page 2/11 -----
 
 
 
- 2 - 
buffer floor and all the floors immediately below the buffer floor (existing or to be converted) 
are collectively referred to as “the Premises”) provided that:  
 
(a) 
the proposed use of the Premises is permitted by the current land use zoning of 
the lot where the existing industrial building situates under the statutory plans, 
or by planning permission given by the Town Planning Board; 
 
(b) 
the conversion of the Premises shall, in all respects comply with the fire safety 
requirements of the Fire Services Department (“FSD”) contained in FSD 
Circular Letter No. 2/2019, or any documents issued by FSD amending, varying 
or substituting the same; and  
 
(c) 
the Premises is under single ownership held by the same owner who submitted 
the application6.  
 
3. 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the temporary change of use of the buffer floor  
(existing or to be converted) as telecommunications exchange centre and computer or data 
processing centre shall not include any provision of customer services or sale of goods in 
whatever form whether involving the physical attendance of the customers or the public or 
otherwise.  Uses for general commercial and office purposes are also excluded notwithstanding 
that such uses may adopt, in their process of working or operation, equipment or facilities that 
fall within the meaning of telecommunications exchange centre and computer or data 
processing centre (such as, the operation of computer hardware or application of computer 
software).  In determining whether a particular use is a use referred to in this paragraph, the 
decision of the Director of Lands shall be final.  
 
4. 
  An owner shall pay an administrative fee as and when demanded by Lands 
Department (“LandsD”) upon submission of an application. The administrative fee for the 
application for the Waiver is not refundable, including but not limited to where the owner 
subsequently withdraws the application, or rejects LandsD’s offer in respect of the application, 
or is unable for any reason to duly execute the legal document effecting the Waiver in all 
respects to the satisfaction of LandsD or shall in any of the circumstances rendering such 
administrative fee non-refundable as set out in any letters demanding payment thereof.  
 
5. 
 
Approval for the grant of the Waiver is subject to such terms and conditions, 
including payment of waiver fee and deposit, as may be imposed by LandsD, including but not 
limited to the following:  
 
(a) 
the conversion of and the Premises shall, in all respects comply with the fire 
safety requirements of FSD contained in FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2019 or any 
documents issued by FSD amending, varying or substituting the same;  
 
(b) 
the Waiver shall be personal to the owner of the Premises and shall be deemed 
to have been terminated upon change of ownership of the Premises or any 
part(s) thereof; 
                                                                                                                                                        
maximum of three lower floors) for non-industrial uses for the compliance of Fire Services Department’s fire 
safety requirements.  In determining the qualifying requirements and what constitute the buffer floor and lower 
three floors of an existing industrial building, the decision of the Director of Fire Services shall be final.  
 
6  For the avoidance of doubt, the registered owner of the buffer floor (existing or to be converted) and the 
registered owner of all the floors immediately below the buffer floor (subject of the application) must be the 
same person or entity (as the case may be).  

----- page 3/11 -----
 
 
 
- 3 - 
 
(c) 
during the validity period of the Waiver, no part of the Premises may be used for 
uses other than those specified in the Waiver; 
 
(d) 
the Premises, after conversion, shall not result in plot ratio for the existing 
industrial building exceeding the maximum development intensity as permitted 
under the Buildings Ordinance (“the BO”), any regulations made thereunder 
and any amending legislation; and   
 
(e) 
the total gross floor area (“GFA”) or site coverage of the Premises, after 
conversion, calculated under the BO, any regulations made thereunder and any 
amending legislation or under lease (as the case may be), shall not exceed the 
total GFA or site coverage of the Premises, before conversion, as set out in the 
latest building plans of the existing industrial building approved by the Building 
Authority under the BO and the Director of Lands under lease. For the 
avoidance of doubt, no additional or bonus GFA (if any) provided for under the 
BO, any regulations made thereunder and any amending legislation or 
otherwise due to the conversion shall be applicable.  
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the Waiver will not be granted for the lifetime of the existing 
building pursuant to this Practice Note.  
 
6. 
 
LandsD Lands Administration Office (“LAO”) Practice Note Issue Nos. 5/2001 
and 5/2001A as varied by LandsD LAO Practice Note Issue No. 1/2015 or any Practice Note 
amending, varying or substituting the same should be referred to insofar as the waiver fee for 
using the Premises (including but not limited to the buffer floor) for telecommunications 
exchange centre is concerned save and except the standard rates of lump sum fee payable 
upfront for waiver for the lifetime of the concerned building.  Regarding the waiver fee for 
using the Premises (including but not limited to the buffer floor) for computer or data 
processing centre, owners are advised to refer to LandsD LAO Practice Note Issue No. 3/2012 
or any Practice Note amending, varying or substituting the same.  The waiver fee for other uses 
will be assessed according to established practices.  
 
7. 
 
The Waiver, if approved by LandsD will only be a temporary waiver of the user 
restriction under lease.  Owners are reminded of the need to approach other relevant authorities 
and departments, such as FSD and the Building Authority to ensure compliance with all 
applicable requirements and to obtain all necessary approvals, permits, permissions or licences 
that may be required under any Ordinances, by-laws or regulations that are in force from time 
to time, whether or not the proposed uses that may be required or permitted under the Waiver 
would involve any alteration, structural or otherwise, to the existing building.  The issue of the 
Waiver should not be construed as any guarantee by LandsD on the feasibility of the proposed 
uses of the Premises nor accepting any liability on the expenses the owners may or had 
incurred. 
 
Other Points to Note 
 
8. 
 
The application should be submitted to LandsD at Units 07 – 11, 27/F, CDW 
Building, 382–392 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan for the attention of Industrial Buildings 
Revitalisation Unit (“IBRU”).  An applicant may wish to refer to Appendix I for a sample of 
the format of such application and Appendix II for a note on use of personal information 
provided in the application.   
 

----- page 4/11 -----
9. 
Owners are advised to engage competent professionals to assist them in making 
the applications. 
10. 
Notwithstanding that there is an existing waiver in respect of any parts of the 
Premises of the existing industrial building ("Existing Waiver"), an application for the Waiver 
for or including those parts may be submitted under this Practice Note and the applicable 
administrative fee shall be paid as and when demanded by LandsD. The Existing Waiver shall 
be deemed to be have been cancelled or terminated simultaneously upon execution of the legal 
document effecting the Waiver, and notwithstanding any conditions governing the Existing 
Waiver to the contrary, no waiver fees and administrative fees paid for the Existing Waiver will 
be refunded and no notice of termination will be given or required. 
11 . 
Every application submitted to LandsD pursuant to this Practice Note will be 
considered on its own merits by LandsD at its absolute discretion acting in its capacity as a 
landlord. 
This Practice Note shall not constitute any representation on the part of the 
Government or give rise to any expectation on the part of the applicant that any application 
submitted to the LandsD will be processed or approved. 
12. 
This Practice Note is issued for general reference purposes only. All rights to 
modify the whole or any part of this Practice Note are hereby reserved. 
- 4-
( Thomas Chan ) 
Director of Lands 
21 March2019 

----- page 5/11 -----
 
Appendix I 
 
Sample of an application 
Application for Waiver for  
Buffer floor and Lower floors of an Existing Industrial Building 
 
 
To : Chief Estate Surveyor/Development Control, 
 
Industrial Buildings Revitalisation Unit, 
 
Lands Department 
 
Dear Sirs,  
(Address of the Buffer floor and the Lower floors (not exceeding three floors) of an Existing 
Industrial Building and lot number being subject of the application) (“the Premises”) 
 
 
*I/We,                 (name of the Applicant)              , as the Sole Owner of the Premises 
hereby apply for a waiver in respect of the Premises held in relation to the *Lease/ Special 
Condition No.                        of Conditions of                                              / Special Condition 
No.                        of New Grant No.                      ) under which *Lot No.  
                    / Lots 
Nos.  
                   *is/are held.  Details of the proposal are provided on separate sheet(s) 
attached to this application. 
 
 
*I / We hereby expressly confirm and declare that : 
 
(a) 
the proposed use of the Premises is permitted by the current land use zoning of the lot 
where the existing industrial building situates under the statutory plans, or by planning 
permission given by the Town Planning Board; 
(b) 
the conversion of Premises (including the buffer floor and the floors immediately below it 
(not exceeding three lower floors) of the existing building) en bloc shall, in all respects 
comply with the fire safety requirements of Fire Services Department (“FSD”) contained 
in the FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2019 or any documents issued by FSD amending, varying 
or substituting the same;  
(c) 
the Premises (including the buffer floor and the floors immediately below it (not exceeding 
three lower floors) of the existing industrial building) are held under my / our single 
ownership ;  
(d) 
the Premises, after conversion, shall not result in plot ratio for the existing industrial 
building exceeding the maximum development intensity as permitted under the Building 
(Planning) Regulations of the Buildings Ordinance (“the BO”); and  
(e)  
the total gross floor area (“GFA”) or site coverage of the Premises, after conversion, 
calculated under the BO, any regulations made thereunder and any amending legislation or 
under lease (as the case may be), shall not exceed the total GFA or site coverage of the 
Premises, before conversion, as set out in the latest building plans of the existing industrial 
building approved by the Building Authority under the BO and the Director of Lands 
under lease. For the avoidance of doubt, no additional or bonus GFA (if any) provided for 
under the BO, any regulations made thereunder and any amending legislation or otherwise 
due to the conversion shall be applicable. 
 

----- page 6/11 -----
 
 
In order to facilitate consideration of *my / our application, *I / we attach the Checklist of 
Basic Requirements together with the required documents / information for your reference. *I / We 
understand that if *I / we do not provide sufficient documents / information including, without 
limitation, the above required documents / information, the Lands Department may not be able to 
process *my / our application. *I/We hereby acknowledge that you may nevertheless request for 
further relevant information or convening of meetings to clarify any aspects of this application as 
appropriate and necessary. 
 
 
*I / We hereby expressly declare, confirm, acknowledge and agree that all the particulars 
and the information provided herein and in support of *my / our application are true and correct in 
all respects. *I / We have not withheld any information required in the application, nor have *I/we 
provided any misleading information.  
 
*I / We further expressly acknowledge that the personal data provided by *me / us in this 
application will be used by the Lands Department in connection with the processing of *my / our 
application.  The provision of any personal data requested in the application form is voluntary.   
 
 
*I / We hereby authorize the Lands Department to disclose *my / our personal data in the 
application and the attached documents to such Government Departments and any other body, 
organization or person(s) as it may see fit at its absolute discretion to obtain such information 
which is deemed relevant to *my / our application, whether on policy or any other grounds. 
 
 
*I / We further authorize and direct and request any Government Department or other 
body which may be approached by the Lands Department to supply any and all information which 
it may require. 
 
 
*  Delete as appropriate 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
Applicant’s Signature:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(H.K.I.D. Card Number:  
 
) 
 
Name of the Applicant in Block Letters : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Address:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Telephone Number: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

----- page 7/11 -----
Notes : 
 
(1) 
Details of the proposed use(s) under application must be provided on separate sheet(s) and 
attached to this application. 
 
(2) 
This application and the separate sheet referred to in Note (1) above should be submitted in 
triplicate. 
 

----- page 8/11 -----
 
Checklist of Basic Requirements  
for Application for Waiver for 
Buffer Floor and Lower Floors of an Existing Industrial Building 
 
A. 
Information / Documents that must be submitted (1) : 
 
 
 
General :
(i) 
2 copies (2) of a complete set of Government Lease or Conditions of 
Sale / Grant / Exchange, etc.(including all executed modification 
letters, no objection letters, waiver letters and extension letters, if 
any) affecting the Premises (3).
 
 
 
 
(ii) 
2 copies (2) of a computer printout containing the historical and 
current ownership particulars of the Premises. 
 
(iii) 
(a) If the owner of the Premises is a limited company, 2 sets of 
certified true copies of its Certificate of Incorporation, 
Certificate of Change of Name (if applicable) and Notice of 
Situation of Registered Office.  For overseas companies, 
documents equivalent to the above should be produced. 
 
 
(b) If there are any chargees/mortgagees, letter(s) from chargees/ 
mortgagees confirming that they have no objection to / agree to 
enter into the proposed waiver. 
 
(iv) 
If submitted by a prospective purchaser (5), a written consent from 
the registered owners of the Premises confirming that they have no 
objection to the submission and processing of this application.  
 
 
 
(v) 
If submitted by an agent, a written authorization from the registered 
owner and prospective purchaser (if applicable) of the Premises. 
 
(vi) 
A copy of an up-to-date location / site plan on an appropriate scale 
(normally 1:1000) showing the Premises.
 
 
 
 
(vii) 
A copy of the Town Planning Board permission letter for the 
proposed uses of the Premises, if applicable. 
 
(viii) 
2 copies of a complete set of the latest building plans (6)  approved 
by the Building Authority for the Premises and a schedule showing 
the total  gross floor area and total internal floor area (6) of the 
Premises. 
 
(ix) 
2 copies of all occupation permits(6) issued by the Building Authority 
for the Premises under application 
    
   
(x) 
Proposed new uses of the Premises under application. 
(please provide details on separate sheet) 
 

----- page 9/11 -----
(xi) 
4 copies of floor plans (7) showing the Premises on an appropriate 
scale (but not larger than A3 size). Each of the floor plan(s) shall 
clearly indicate the extent of the Premises in coloured pink and 
specify the internal floor area of the Premises with breakdown for 
the respective uses, if appropriate 
    
(xii) 
Details of the proposed operation of computer/data processing centre 
in the buffer floor of the existing industrial building under the 
application with reference to footnote 4 of LAO Practice Note Issue 
No. 3/2019, including but not limited to the conceptual design of the 
computer/data processing centre 
    
    
(xiii) 
If applicable, 2 copies of any building works proposal (7) for the 
Premises or part(s) thereof and, irrespective of whether any building 
works proposal is involved, there should be certification :- 
 
 
(a) of any change in gross floor area, site coverage, number of 
storeys and height of the Premises;  
(b) compliance with the fire safety requirements of Fire Services 
Department (“FSD”) in the FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2019 or 
any documents issued by FSD amending, varying or 
substituting the same; and 
(b) that no other non-compliance with the lease conditions.  
 
 
 
(xiv) 
Does the applicant for waiver also wish to modify other lease 
restrictions (other than the user restriction) in association with the 
proposed new use(s)? 
 
             Yes                      No 
(please provide details on 
separate sheet if necessary)
 
 
 
 
 
 
(xv) 
An energy saving plan if data centre with reference to footnote 4 of 
LAO Practice Note Issue No. 3/2019 is proposed on the buffer 
floor(8)   
 
 
 
B. 
Information / Documents that will facilitate the processing of the  
 
application (9) : 
 
 
 
(xvi) 
A copy of an extract of the relevant Outline Zoning Plan (together 
with the explanatory notes, as appropriate) showing the Premises. 
 
 
(xvii) 
2 sets of sketch plans(7) illustrating the proposed change in use for 
the premises, if available. 
 

----- page 10/11 -----
 
(xviii)
2 copies of any submissions approved by other relevant authorities 
relating to the proposal or other relevant study assessment reports, if 
applicable (e.g. Environmental / Traffic / Drainage Impact 
Assessment Reports etc.)
 
 
Notes : 
(1)
Please put a tick in the relevant box if applicable unless otherwise specified; and delete as 
appropriate. 
(2)
One set of documents should be certified by the Land Registry or by the solicitor acting for the 
applicant, while the other set may be a photocopy of the certified documents.  Certification of 
the documents should be done not more than one month before submission of the application. 
(3)
The Premises include all premises of the existing industrial building under the waiver 
application.  It shall include the buffer floor (existing or to be converted) and all the  floors 
immediately below the buffer floor.
 
(4)
IBRU Unit refers to the Industrial Buildings Revitalisation Unit of the Lands Department at 
Units 07-11, 27/F, CDW Building, 382-392 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan, New Territories.  
 
(5)
A prospective purchaser is an intending purchaser under an existing Agreement for Sale and 
Purchase registered in the Land Registry.  
(6)
The plans and documents should be certified by the Authorized Person (as defined in the 
Buildings Ordinance (Cap. 123) and any amending legislation) acting for the applicant.   
(7)
The proposal should be prepared and submitted by the Authorized Person or other competent 
professionals acting for the applicant. 
(8)
Applicant should make reference to the “Green Data Centre Practice” published by the Office 
of Government Chief Information Officer 
(http://www.ogcio.gov.hk/en/business/tech_promotion/green_computing/doc/Green_Data_Cen
tre_Practices.pdf). 
(9)
Any other information may be supplied in triplicate on separate sheet(s) attached to the 
application.
 

----- page 11/11 -----
Appendix II 
 
 
Note on use of Personal Information Required in the Application 
 
 
Purpose of Collection 
The personal data provided by means of this form will be used 
by the Lands Department for the purpose of considering and 
processing the application. 
 
The provision of personal data by means of this form is 
voluntary. If you do not provide sufficient information, the 
Lands Department may not be able to process your application.
 
 
Class of Transferees 
The personal data you provided by means of this form may be 
disclosed to other Government bureaux / departments for the 
purpose mentioned above. 
 
 
Access to Personal Data 
The applicants have a right of access and correction with 
respect to personal data as provided for in Sections 18 and 22 
and Principle 6 of Schedule 1 of the Personal Data (Privacy) 
Ordinance. Such right of access includes the right to obtain a 
copy of the personal data provided on this form. 
 
 
Enquiries 
Enquiries concerning the personal data collected, including the 
request for access and corrections, should be addressed to: 
 
 
The Office Personal Data Controlling  
 
Officer of the Lands Department 
 
 
 
 
