
----- page 1/1 -----
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 4/2014A 
Accountable and Non-accountable Gross Floor Area (GFA) under Lease 
The streamlined arrangements for stipulating maximum plot ratio (PR) I GF A 
restriction, determining GF A accountability of typical building facilities, features and structures 
as well as checking compliance with the maximum PR/GF A restriction amongst the Buildings 
Department, Lands Department and Planning Department have been promulgated in the revised 
Joint Practice Note No. 4 (JPN No. 4) which takes effect from 18 October 2021 (the Effective 
Date). To implement the streamlined arrangements, this practice note (PN) varies or supplements 
the relevant paragraphs of Lands Administration Office Practice Note Issue No. 4/2014 
(LAO PN No. 4/2014) in so far as the accountability of certain building facilities, features and 
structures in GF A calculation is concerned. 
2. 
The streamlined arrangements in determining the GF A accountability as 
promulgated in JPN No. 4 apply to all new building plans or major revision of building plans for 
development proposals submitted to the Building Authority (BA) for approval on or after the 
Effective Date. In accordance with the streamlined arrangements, in processing such plans on or 
after the Effective Date, notwithstanding the provisions of LAO PN No. 4/2014, the GFA 
accountability under lease1 for certain building facilities, features and structures would be treated 
in accordance with JPN No. 4 subject to compliance with the exemption criteria as set out in 
JPN No. 4 (if any). In principle, the BA's 1uling would be followed in exempting such facilities, 
features and structures from GF A calculation. 
3. 
This PN is not applicable to any building which, by reason of the Buildings Ordinance 
(Application to the New Territories) Ordinance (Cap. 121), is exempted from the provisions of the 
Buildings Ordinance (Cap. 123). 
4. 
Nothing in this PN shall in any way fetter or affect or prejudice the rights of the 
Government, the Director and their officers under the relevant lease or the Government's rights as 
lessor/ landlord, and all such rights are hereby reserved. Besides, nothing in this PN including any 
words and expressions used shall in any way be construed as any waiver of any provisions under lease 
or affect or bind the Government in relation to interpretation or enforcement of the terms and conditions 
of the relevant lease or otherwise. All rights to modify the whole or any part of this PN are hereby 
reserved. 
( Andrew LAI ) 
Director of Lands 
7 October 2021 
1 All references to "lease" in this PN shall include Government Lease or Conditions of Sale/ Grant/ Exchange, etc. as the 
case may be and "leases" shall be construed accordingly. 
