
----- page 1/12 -----
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note  
 
 
   
Issue No.  4/2019 
 
 
 
 
Application for Waivers for Industrial Premises 
(other than for waivers to allow data centre use1 and 
testing laboratory use2 in industrial premises) 
 
 
 
 
To expedite the processing of applications for waivers for use of existing 
premises in part(s) of an industrial building3 held under lease4 with an “industrial purposes” 
(“Industrial Premises”)5 for non-industrial purposes (other than for data centre use and testing 
laboratory use), a streamlined procedure has been introduced since June 2003 for processing 
applications from owners of Industrial Premises for waiver  (“the Waiver”) for uses specified 
in paragraphs 2 and 4 below. 
 
2. 
 
With effect from 1 April 2019, applications should be made in the form of the 
application letter at Appendix I and the grant of waivers shall be subject to such terms and 
conditions including administrative fee, as may be determined.  Further, under this procedure, 
                                                                                                                                                        
 
1 For waivers for data centre use in industrial buildings, see LandsD LAO Practice Note Nos. 3/2012, 3/2012A 
and 3/2012B or any Practice Note amending, varying or substituting the same. 
 
2 For waivers for testing laboratory use in industrial buildings, see LandsD LAO Practice Note No. 1/2016 or 
any Practice Note amending, varying or substituting the same. 
 
3  An industrial building refers to a building lawfully erected on a lot which, under the lease conditions, shall not 
be used for any purpose other than for industrial purpose or for industrial and / or godown purposes.  It does 
not include special factories such as those located in storage premises in container terminals and flatted 
factories built by the Hong Kong Housing Authority, or lots for special industries such as cargo handling uses, 
ship building and repairing, oil storage and refining and production of associated chemical by-product, 
manufacture of polystyrene plastics, manufacture and storage of chlorine, hydrogen and textile chemicals, etc. 
 
4  All references to “lease” in this Practice Note cover Government Lease or Conditions of Sale / Grant / 
Exchange, etc. (as the case may be) and “leases” shall be construed accordingly.   
 
5  Industrial Premises may only be used for purposes involving a manufacturing process.  However, 
“technology-based crop and aquaculture production” will generally be accepted in industrial buildings (as 
referred in footnote 3 above) as an industrial use under lease by Lands Department.  Further, it should be noted 
that the production of crops and aquatic organisms in a controlled process through technological means; 
whereby the inputs, process and environmental factors, including but not limited to light intensity, 
temperature, humidity, carbon dioxide and air flow, are constantly monitored and adjusted for an optimal 
output will be regarded as falling within the meaning of the expression “technology-based crop and 
aquaculture production”.  Yet, activities involving direct provision of customer services or goods are excluded.  
In determining whether a particular activity is an activity involving direct provision of customer services or 
goods, the decision of the Director of Lands shall be final.   
 

----- page 2/12 -----
- 2 - 
 
 
 
waivers to be issued will make reference to a Schedule of Permitted Uses6 annexed to the 
Waiver Letter concerned (Please see Appendix II) and waiver fees at standard rates as set out 
at Appendix III will be charged in applicable cases. 
 
3.  
 
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 above, the above procedure is not applicable to: 
 
(i) 
Industrial Premises located on the basement, ground and podium floors7; and/or 
 
(ii) 
buildings with building plans approved by the Building Authority on or after 1 April 
2007 or with building plans approved before 1 April 2007 but with major amendments8 
made to these plans on or after 1 April 2007. 
 
4. 
 
Alternatively, owners of Industrial Premises may choose to apply for waivers 
exclusively for the purposes of information technology and telecommunications industries9 for 
the manufacture, design, development, production, operation, processing or assembly of, or 
research into, any of the following (together with office and storage facilities ancillary and 
directly related thereto):  
 
(i) 
electronic and micro-electronic systems, goods and components; 
 
(ii) 
information technology products and services including any computer hardware and 
software, contents and applications; and 
 
(iii) 
telecommunications facilities and telecommunications services, “telecommunications” 
and “telecommunications service” having the same meaning as defined in the 
Telecommunications Ordinance (Cap. 106) and its amending legislation, 
 
provided always that the provision of customer services and retail services, which involve the 
physical attendance of the customers or the public at the premises concerned, will not be 
permitted.  Whilst the Waiver will be subject to such terms and conditions including 
administrative fee, as may be determined, the use of the premises will be restricted to 
information technology and telecommunications industries purposes and the waiver fee will be 
charged in accordance with the standard rates as set out at Appendix IV.  For radio base 
stations (including antennae) for provision of mobile services installed or to be installed 
                                                                                                                                                        
 
6 In determining whether a particular user is a use specified in the Schedule of Permitted Uses, the decision of 
the Director of Lands shall be final. 
 
7 In determining whether the Industrial Premises are located on basement, ground and podium floors, the 
decision of the Director of Lands shall be final. 
 
8 In determining whether the amendments are major or minor, the decision of the Director of Lands shall be 
final. 
 
9 
By way of illustration, the uses would include those operations commonly known as gateways, exchanges, 
switching centres, radio base stations, paging centres, computer centres, data centres, data processing centres, 
and telesites or carrier hotels. General commercial / office uses are excluded notwithstanding that these uses 
may adopt, in their process of working or operation, equipment or facilities that fall within those set out in (i) 
to (iii) of this paragraph (such as the operation of computer hardware or application of computer software).  
Examples of these uses being excluded are trading firms, accounting firms, architectural firms, engineering 
consultancy firms, travel agencies, estate agents, employment agencies, financial consultants, brokerage firms 
etc.  In determining whether a particular use is a use specified in this paragraph, the decision of the Director of 
Lands shall be final.  

----- page 3/12 -----
- 3 - 
 
 
 
outside the building, including on the rooftop of the building, Lands Department (“LandsD”) 
Lands Administration Office (“LAO”) Practice Note No. 5/2019 or any Practice Note 
amending, varying or substituting the same should be referred to.  
 
5. 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, for a waiver to allow data centre use in Industrial 
Premises, LandsD LAO Practice Note Nos. 3/2012, 3/2012A and 3/2012B or any Practice Note 
amending, varying or substituting the same should be referred to.  For a waiver to allow testing 
laboratory use in Industrial Premises, LandsD LAO Practice Note No. 1/2016 or any Practice 
Note amending, varying or substituting the same is applicable. 
 
6. 
 
Our aim is to issue waivers covered by this Practice Note not later than two 
months from the date of receipt of a valid application.  
 
7. 
 
An owner shall pay an administrative fee as and when demanded by LandsD 
upon submission of an application.  The administrative fee for the application for the Waiver is 
not refundable, including but not limited to where the owner subsequently withdraws the 
application, or rejects LandsD’s offer in respect of the application, or is unable for any reason 
to duly execute the legal document effecting the Waiver in all respects to the satisfaction of 
LandsD or shall in any of the circumstances rendering such administrative fee non-refundable 
as set out in any letters demanding payment thereof. 
 
8. 
 
The Waiver, if approved by LandsD under the procedure described above will 
only cover temporary variation to the user restriction under lease.  Owners are reminded of the 
need to approach other relevant authorities and departments, such as the Town Planning Board, 
Fire Services Department and Building Authority to ensure compliance with all applicable 
requirements and to obtain all necessary approvals, permits, permissions or licences that may 
be required under any Ordinances, by-laws or regulations that are in force from time to time, 
whether or not the proposed uses that may be required or permitted under the Waiver would 
involve any alteration, structural or otherwise, to the existing building.  The issue of the Waiver 
should not be construed as any guarantee by LandsD on the feasibility of the proposed uses of 
the premises nor accepting any liability on the expenses the owners may or had incurred. 
 
Other Points to Note 
 
9. 
 
The application should be submitted to the relevant District Lands Office of the 
LandsD 
at 
the 
address 
as 
set 
out 
in 
LandsD’s 
website 
(www.landsd.gov.hk/en/about/enquiries.htm).  An applicant may wish to refer to Appendix I 
for a sample of the format of such application and Appendix V for a note on the use of the 
personal information provided in the application. 
 
10.  
 
Owners are advised to engage competent professionals to assist them in 
submitting the applications. 
 
11.  
 
Every application submitted to LandsD pursuant to this Practice Note will be 
considered on its own merits by LandsD at its absolute discretion acting in its capacity as a 
landlord.  It must be pointed out that in determining whether a particular user is a use referred 
to in this Practice Note, the decision of the Director of Lands shall be final.  The standard rates 
of waiver fees set out in Appendices III and IV to this Practice Note are subject to review 
from time to time as the Government shall at its absolute discretion consider appropriate.  This 
Practice Note shall not constitute any representation on the part of the Government or give rise 

----- page 4/12 -----
- 4-
to any expectation on the part of the owners that any application submitted to LandsD will be 
processed or approved. 
12. 
This Practice Note is issued for general reference purposes only. All rights to 
modify the whole or any part of this Practice Note are hereby reserved. 
13. 
LandsD LAO Practice Note Nos. 5/2001, 5/2001A, 2/2003 and 112015 are 
superseded by this LAO Practice Note No. 4/2019 and another LAO Practice Note No. 5/2019 
from 1 April2019. 
( Thomas Chan ) 
Director of Lands 
22 March 2019 

----- page 5/12 -----
Appendix I 
Sample of an Application 
 
Application for Waiver for Industrial Premises 
 
 
To : District Lands Officer,   
 
  
 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
(Address of the Industrial Premises and Lot Number being Subject of the Application) 
 
 
I / We, [             (name of the Agent)             as the agent of *]                (name of 
the Applicants)              , [as the (Sole Owner / Owners)* of the captioned Industrial 
Premises] hereby apply for a temporary waiver to allow the use of part(s) of the building / 
captioned premises for [the Schedule of Permitted Uses at Appendix II  / information 
technology and telecommunications industries purposes (other than radio base stations 
(including antennae) for provision of mobile services to be installed outside the building, 
including on the rooftop of the building)*] as referred to in LandsD LAO Practice Note No. 
4/2019 in respect of the captioned Industrial Premises held in relation to the (Lease / Special 
Condition No.                        of Conditions of                                              / Special 
Condition No.                        of New Grant No.                      )* under which the Lot No(s). 
 
                    is / are held for (a period of initially ___________ years / the lifetime 
of the existing building erected on the lot)*.   
 
 
 
In order to facilitate consideration of my / our application, I / we attach the 
Checklist of Basic Requirements together with the required documents / information for your 
reference.  I / We understand that if I / we do not provide sufficient documents / information 
including, without limitation, the above required documents / information, the Lands 
Department may not be able to process my / our application.  I / We hereby acknowledge 
that you may nevertheless request for further relevant information or convening meetings to 
clarify any aspects of this application as appropriate and necessary. 
 
I / We hereby expressly declare, confirm, acknowledge and agree that all the 
particulars and the information provided herein and in support of my / our application are true 
and correct in all respects. I / We have not withheld any information required in the 
application, nor have I/we provided any misleading information.  
 
I / We further expressly acknowledge that the personal data provided by me / us in 
this application will be used by the Lands Department in connection with the processing of 
my / our application.  The provision of any personal data requested in the application form 
is voluntary.   
 
I / We hereby authorize the Lands Department to disclose my / our personal data in 
the application and the attached documents to such Government Departments and any other 
body, organization or person(s) as it may see fit at its absolute discretion to obtain such 
information which is deemed relevant to my / our application, whether on policy or any other 
grounds. 
 
 
I / We further authorize and direct and request any Government Department or other 

----- page 6/12 -----
- 2 - 
 
body which may be approached by the Lands Department to supply any and all documents / 
information which it may require. 
 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
(Agent’s / Applicant(s)’s)* Signature:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(H.K.I.D. Card Number(s): 
 
 
) 
 
Name of the (Agent / Applicant(s))* in Block Letters:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Address:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Telephone Number: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*  Delete as appropriate 
 
 
Notes : 
 
(1) 
Contacts of the District Lands Offices are set out in Lands Department’s website 
(www.landsd.gov.hk/en/about/enquiries.htm) 
 
(2) 
All owners (including intending purchaser under an Agreement for Sale and Purchase of 
the Premises) must sign in the capacity of applicants. 
 

----- page 7/12 -----
- 3 - 
 
 
Checklist of Basic Requirements 
 
Application for Waiver for Industrial Premises 
 
Information / Documents that must be submitted (1) :  
 
 
 
(i) 
Two copies (2) of a complete set of Government land grant 
documents (including all executed lease modification letters 
and extension letters, if any) affecting the premises (3). 
 
 
(ii) 
Two copies (2) of a computer printout containing the historical 
and current ownership particulars of the premises. 
 
(iii) 
If submitted by an agent, a written authorization from all 
registered owners and prospective purchasers(4) (if applicable) 
of the premises. 
 
(iv) 
A copy of an up-to-date location / site / floor plan on an 
appropriate scale showing the premises. 
 
(v) 
Two copies of the Town Planning Board permission letter for 
the proposed uses, if applicable.  For claims of the use of the 
premises being an existing use (‘EU’), if applicable, two copies 
of document demonstrating the ‘EU’ status should be provided. 
Please refer to the Town Planning Board Guidelines No. 24C 
for Interpretation of Existing Use in the Urban and New Town 
Areas (TPB PG-No. 24C) and any subsequent guidelines or 
otherwise amending or substituting the same for details. 
 
(vi) 
Two sets of drawings on an appropriate scale showing the size 
and detailed dimensions of the area under application, including 
the internal floor area calculation, prepared and certified by an 
Authorized Person or a Registered Professional Surveyor. 
 
(vii) 
A clear description of the proposed operation to be carried out 
in and uses of the premises 
 
 

----- page 8/12 -----
- 4 - 
 
 
Notes: 
(1) 
Please put a tick in the relevant box if applicable unless otherwise specified; and 
delete as appropriate. 
(2) 
One set of documents should be certified by the Land Registry or by the solicitor 
acting for the applicant, while the other set may be a photocopy of the certified 
documents.  Certification of the documents should be done not more than one 
month before submission of the application. 
(3) 
Premises include all premises of the existing building(s) under the waiver 
application. 
(4) 
A prospective purchaser is an intending purchaser under an existing Agreement for 
Sale and Purchase registered in the Land Registry.
 
  
 

----- page 9/12 -----
Appendix II 
Schedule of Permitted Uses1 
for Standard Rates of Waiver Fees as referred to at Appendix III 
(with effect from 1 April 2019) 
 
 
 
  
(1) 
headquarters or back-office operations; 
 
(2) 
offices for professional consultants, such as architects, engineers, surveyors, 
planning consultants, solicitors and accountants; 
 
(3) 
offices for business services, such as advertising agencies, management 
consultants, public relations agencies and interior / graphic designers;  
  
(4) 
information technology and telecommunications industries2; 
 
(5) 
cargo handling and forwarding facilities3; 
 
 
(6) 
recyclable collection centres3; and 
 
(7) 
such other uses for non-residential purposes not involving direct provision of 
customer services or goods to the general public. 
 
 
                                                 
1  
In determining whether a particular use of the premises under application falls within any of the uses under 
this Schedule of Permitted Uses, the decision of the Director of Lands shall be final. 
 
2 
For the avoidance of doubt, information technology and telecommunications industries exclude radio base 
stations (including antennae) for provision of mobile services mentioned in LandsD LAO Practice Note No. 
5/2019 or any Practice Note amending, varying or substituting the same.   
 
3  
In accordance with LandsD LAO Practice Note No. 1/2019, “cargo handling and forwarding facility” and 
“recyclable collection centre” as described therein in premises in parts of a building held under lease with a 
‘godown purposes’ will generally be accepted under lease by Lands Department.  Hence, temporary waiver 
for “cargo handling and forwarding facility” and/ or “recyclable collection centre” uses falling within the 
definitions as described under LandsD LAO Practice Note No. 1/2019 would not be applicable for Industrial 
Premises held under lease with a ‘godown purposes’. 
For the avoidance of doubt, “cargo handling and forwarding facility” and “recyclable collection centre” as 
referred in this Appendix do not include container freight station or free-standing purpose-design logistics 
centre and sorting of municipal solid waste respectively. 

----- page 10/12 -----
Appendix III 
Standard Rates of Waiver Fees for  
the Permitted Uses as referred to at Appendix II in Industrial Premises 
(with effect from 1 April 2019) 
 
 
 
Location of 
Premises 
Standard Rates (1) for Annual 
Waiver Fee (based on Internal 
Floor Area (2)) of the concerned 
premises 
Standard Rates (1) of Lump Sum Fee 
(based on Internal Floor Area (2)) 
payable upfront for waivers for the 
lifetime of the concerned building 
Urban Area and 
Tsuen Wan /  
Kwai Tsing 
 
$718/m² p.a. 
$6,540/m² 
New Territories 
other than  
Tsuen Wan /  
Kwai Tsing 
 
$549/m² p.a. 
$4,980/m² 
 
Notes: 
 
(1) (a) The standard rates will not be applicable to premises located on basement, ground or 
podium floors; and buildings with building plans approved by the Building Authority on or 
after 1 April 2007 or with building plans approved before 1 April 2007 but with major 
amendments made to these plans on or after 1 April 2007.  Waiver fees for premises in 
these locations or buildings will be subject to individual assessment.  In determining 
whether the location of the concerned premises is within the basement, ground or podium 
floors of a development or whether the amendments to the building plans are major or 
minor, the decision of the Director of Lands shall be final. 
 
(b)  For the avoidance of doubt, subject to (a) above, the Director of Lands reserves the right to 
determine as to which rate should be applicable in respect of any application and the 
decision of the Director of Lands in this matter shall be final. 
 
(c) These standard rates are subject to review from time to time as the Government shall at its 
absolute discretion consider appropriate. 
 
(2) 
The Internal Floor Area of a unit comprises the enclosed internal space of the unit for the 
exclusive use of the occupier including balconies, toilets and lift lobbies forming part of 
that unit. It shall be the area contained within the enclosing walls of that unit measured to 
the interior face of the external wall or separating wall. All internal partitions and columns 
within the unit shall be included. 
 

----- page 11/12 -----
Appendix IV 
Standard Rates of Waiver Fees for  
Information Technology and Telecommunications Industries in Industrial Premises 
(with effect from 1 April 2019) 
 
 
Location of Premises 
Standard Rates(1) & (2) of 
Annual Waiver Fee 
based on Internal Floor 
Area(3) of the concerned 
premises 
Standard Rates(1) & (2) of 
Lump Sum Fee (based 
on Internal Floor Area(3))
payable upfront for 
waiver for the lifetime of 
the concerned building
For those premises within the district 
boundary of District Lands Office 
(Hong Kong West and South), District 
Lands Office (Hong Kong East), 
District Lands Office (Kowloon East), 
District Lands Office (Kowloon West), 
District Lands office (Tsuen Wan and 
Kwai Tsing)  
 
$104/m² p.a. 
$920/m² 
For those premises within the district 
boundary of District Lands Office 
(Tuen Mun), District Lands Office 
(Yuen Long), District Lands Office 
(North), District Lands Office (Tai Po), 
District Lands Office (Shatin), District 
Lands Office (Sai Kung) and District 
Lands Office (Islands) 
 
$69/m² p.a. 
$610/m² 
 
 
Notes: 
 
(1)  
These standard rates are subject to review from time to time as the Government shall at its 
absolute discretion consider appropriate. 
 
(2)  
These standard rates are not applicable to radio base stations (including antennae) for 
provision of mobile phone services installed or to be installed outside the building, 
including on the rooftop of the building.  For radio base stations installed or to be installed 
outside the building, including on the rooftop of the building, LandsD LAO Practice Note 
No. 5/2019 for Application for Waivers for Installation of Radio Base Stations for Mobile 
Services in Existing Buildings or any Practice Note amending, varying or substituting the 
same should be referred to. 
 
(3)  
The Internal Floor Area of a unit comprises the enclosed internal space of the unit for the 
exclusive use of the occupier including balconies, toilets and lift lobbies forming part of 
that unit. It shall be the area contained within the enclosing walls of that unit measured to 
the interior face of the external wall or separating wall. All internal partitions and columns 
within the unit shall be included. 
 

----- page 12/12 -----
Appendix V 
Note on Use of Personal Information Required in the Application 
 
Purpose of Collection 
The personal data provided by means of this form will 
be used by the Lands Department for the purpose of 
considering and processing the application.  The 
provision of personal data by means of this form is 
voluntary. If you do not provide sufficient information, 
the Lands Department may not be able to process your 
application. 
 
 
Class of Transferees 
The personal data you provided by means of this form 
may be disclosed to other Government bureaux / 
departments for the purpose mentioned above. 
 
 
Access to Personal Data 
The applicants have a right of access and correction with 
respect to personal data as provided for in Sections 18 
and 22 and Principle 6 of Schedule 1 of the Personal 
Data (Privacy) Ordinance. Such right of access includes 
the right to obtain a copy of the personal data provided 
on this form. 
 
 
Enquiries 
Enquiries concerning the personal data collected, 
including the request for access and corrections, should 
be addressed to: 
 
 
The Office Personal Data Controlling  
 
Officer of the Lands Department 
 
 
