
----- page 1/3 -----
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 4/2022 
Installation of Solar Photovoltaic  
Systems in Private Developments 
As announced in the 2020 Policy Address, Hong Kong would strive to achieve 
carbon neutrality before 2050.  To facilitate the attainment of this objective and promote the 
wider installation of renewable energy systems by private sector on their land and properties 
in Hong Kong, Lands Department (“LandsD”) has introduced facilitation measures on the 
installation of solar photovoltaic (“PV”) systems1 in private developments2 under lease3. 
2.
LandsD will generally accept the installation of solar PV systems within a lot held
under a lease as use ancillary to the permitted use under the lease provided that the electricity 
generated is for the sole use by the occupiers in the building or accommodation and for the 
building or accommodation within the lot held under the lease; separate application to the 
Director of Lands (“the Director”) insofar as the user restriction is concerned would not 
generally be required.  The lot or property owner should ensure that the electricity generated 
from the proposed solar PV systems would not be significantly in excess of that normally 
required by the occupiers concerned and for the building or accommodation within the lot 
that it serves.  The space underneath the solar PV systems shall not in any event be enclosed.  
Any installation of solar PV systems within a lot shall comply with all other lease conditions 
governing the lot. 
1
A solar PV system may include solar PV panels, inverters, energy meters, distribution boards, cables and 
other components together with supporting structures as necessary to form a complete grid connected solar 
PV installation. 
2
For installation of solar PV system on the roof or roof of stairhood in both new and existing New Territories 
Exempted Houses, reference should be made to the pamphlet for “Building New Territories Exempted 
Houses” published by LandsD and available on the LandsD’s website (www.landsd.gov.hk). 
3
All references to “lease” in this Practice Note shall include Government Lease or Conditions of Sale / Grant 
/ Exchange, etc. as the case may be and “leases” shall be construed accordingly. 

----- page 2/3 -----
- 2 - 
3.
The erection of the supporting structure for a solar PV system is building works
subject to the control of the Buildings Ordinance (“BO”) (Cap. 123).  It may be carried out 
under the simplified requirements of the Minor Works Control System (“MWCS”) provided 
that the supporting structure fulfills the requirements4 specified in the Technical Guidelines on 
MWCS and any amending or substituting guidelines (“Technical Guidelines”) published by 
the Buildings Department (“BD”)5.  If the supporting structure is erected under the MWCS, 
separate submission of building plans/drawings to LandsD for approval would not generally 
be required.  Apart from the user restriction as mentioned in paragraph 2 above, the lot or 
property owner shall ensure that the installation of the proposed solar PV systems shall 
comply with all other lease conditions governing the lot. 
4.
If the proposed supporting structure for the solar PV installation does not fulfill
the requirements specified in the Technical Guidelines and is not erected under the MWCS, 
the lot or property owner will have to engage an Authorised Person to submit building plans 
to the Building Authority for prior approval and consent to the commencement of works.   
BD will refer such plans to LandsD for consideration under lease through the Centralised 
Processing System6. 
5.
The above facilitation measures are not intended to apply to dedicated commercial
solar farms to be set up on private lots, irrespective of whether erection of building or 
structure is prohibited under lease.  Such proposal would continue to be separately considered 
by LandsD on individual case basis. 
6.
Nothing in this Practice Note (“PN”) shall in any way fetter or affect or prejudice
the exercise of the rights of the Government, the Director and their officers under the relevant 
lease or the Government’s rights as lessor or landlord, and all such rights are hereby reserved.  
Besides, nothing in this PN, including any words and expressions used, shall in any way be 
construed as any variation or waiver of any provisions under the relevant lease or affect, 
prejudice or bind the Government in relation to the interpretation or enforcement of the terms 
and conditions of the relevant lease. 
4
The supporting structure should not, among other matters, be higher than 1.5 metres (see description of the 
Minor Works Items 1.50 and 3.50 in the Technical Guidelines). 
5
The Technical Guidelines are available on the BD’s website (www.bd.gov.hk). 
6
Reference should be made to Practice Note for Authorized Persons, Registered Structural Engineers and 
Registered Geotechnical Engineers (“PNAP”) ADM-2 on “Centralised Processing of Building Plans” and 
any amending or substituting PNAP issued by BD. 

----- page 3/3 -----
- 3 -
7. 
This PN is not applicable to any buildings which, by virtue of the Buildings 
Ordinance (Application to the New Territories) Ordinance (Cap. 121), is exempted企om the 
provisions of the BO. 
8. 
This PN is issued for general reference purposes only. 
All rights to modify the 
whole or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. 
Director of Lands 
11扎fay 2022 
