
----- page 1/7 -----
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note 
Issue No.   4/2018 
 
 
 
 
Streamlined Building Plans Checking Process 
 
 
Purpose 
 
 In order to improve the building plans checking process under lease 1, the 
Lands Department (LandsD) has promulgated a streamlined building plans checking 
process (the Streamlined Process) and also rationalized the current administrative 
measures on presentations and meetings by introducing workshops to facilitate the 
exchange of views between the Authorized Persons (APs) and LandsD as well as the 
relevant Government departments on the fundamental issues on general building plans 
(GBP) submission required under lease at the early design stage, details of which are 
set out in this Practice Note.  
 
2. 
When preparing any GBP submission, the APs have to ensure and confirm the 
correctness of all arithmetic and area calculations (including but not limited to 
calculations on gross floor area and site coverage) and to demonstrate the compliance 
with development control parameters and the other applicable lease conditions in 
form of a Development Schedule2 submitted together with the GBP.   
 
 
The Streamlined Process 
 
3. 
 Under the Streamlined Process, LandsD will not check any GBP 
amendment submissions under the Buildings Ordinance (BO) if they do not have any 
implications on the conditions under the lease.  The obligation is on the lot owner and 
his APs when submitting the GBP to inform LandsD whenever there are amendments 
that have such implications after the initial stage. For the avoidance of doubt, 
amendment submissions do not include any resubmission when the previous 
submission has been rejected or disapproved by LandsD or major revision3 where the 
1 
All references to “lease” in this Practice Note cover Government Lease or Conditions of Sale / 
Grant / Exchange, etc. (as the case may be) and “leases” shall be construed accordingly. 
2  LandsD LAO Practice Note No. 2/2018 on “Processing of General Building Plans under lease” 
should be referred to for submission of the Development Schedule.   
3  Major revision refers to the GBP that has been so extensively revised that must be re-considered 
under the lease. Examples of major revision:  changes in disposition, number of blocks, number of 
storeys, configuration of floor plans; substantial changes in site area, formation levels and 
configuration; changes that would seriously affect access to buildings etc..    
- 1 - 
 
                                                     

----- page 2/7 -----
amendments are so extensive that must be re-considered under lease.  For the purpose 
of this Practice Note, the decision of the Director of Lands as to what constitutes 
major revision shall be final.  The operation of the Streamlined Process will not affect 
any GBP submission requirements under the BO.  
 
 
3-Stage GBP Checking Process  
 
4. 
The GBP submissions will, where appropriate, be referred to LandsD for 
checking compliance with the lease conditions through the Buildings Department’s 
Centralized Processing System 4.  Under the Streamlined Process, there are three 
stages of vetting of the GBP by LandsD. 
 
(I) 
Stage 1 – Full set of GBP submission before commencement of building works 
 
(a) 
The APs are required to submit a full set of GBP accompanied by a 
Development Schedule which contains the AP’s certification confirming the 
correctness of all arithmetic and area calculations and compliance with the lease 
conditions (AP’s Certification).  The APs are also mandate to submit one set of 
Coloured Building Plans5 setting out the areas which are accountable and non-
accountable for calculation of gross floor area, transfer plate and extent of site 
coverage as provided under lease if computer is used for such calculations. The 
submission of a DVD-ROM for the area calculations electronically as provided 
under LandsD LAO Practice Note No. 3/2018 is not required.    
 
(b) 
On the basis of the above-mentioned AP’s Certification and Coloured 
Building Plans (if any), LandsD will not carry out any checking of area 
calculations contained in the GBP at Stage 1 but will consider the GBP for 
compliance of other conditions under lease.   
 
(c) 
If the GBP submitted is considered acceptable in principle under the 
lease conditions, approval  in-principle under lease may be given by LandsD at 
Stage 1 subject to the conditions, among others, that a full set of the up-to-date 
GBP duly approved by Building Authority (BA) shall be submitted to LandsD 
for approval under lease upon or prior to (i) any application for consent to enter 
into agreements for sale and purchase (Pre-sale Consent) is submitted to the 
Legal Advisory and Conveyancing Office of LandsD (LACO); and (ii) any 
application for occupation permit is made to the BA under the BO in 
compliance with the requirements set out in paragraphs 4(II)(a) and 4(III)(a) 
below. 
  
 
4  Centralized Processing System is referred to in Buildings Department’s Practice Note for Authorized 
Persons, Registered Structural Engineers and Registered Geotechnical Engineers No. ADM-2. 
5 LandsD LAO Practice Note 3/2018 on “Building Plan Submissions Use of Computer for Mathematical 
Calculation of Areas” should be referred to. 
- 2 - 
 
                                                     

----- page 3/7 -----
(II) Stage 2 - Full set of up-to-date GBP submission approved by BA under the BO 
upon or prior to submission of an application for Pre-sale Consent  
 
(a) 
Upon or prior to an application for Pre-sale Consent is submitted to 
LACO, the APs are required to:  
 
(i) 
certify and confirm to the relevant District Lands Office6 (DLO) that 
an up-to-date set of GBP with quoted drawing numbers and version 
date has been duly approved by BA under the BO; 
 
(ii) 
submit to the relevant  DLO direct a full set of the up-to-date GBP duly 
approved by the BA under the BO; 
   
(iii) 
observe and comply with  the requirements under LandsD LAO 
Practice Note Nos. 2/2018 and 3/2018 for this submission, including 
without limitation the submission of a DVD-ROM for the area 
calculations electronically; and 
  
(iv) 
certify and confirm that the set of up-to-date GBP submitted to the 
relevant DLO  is the same set of GBP which has been or shall be 
referred to in the lot owner’s application for Pre-sale Consent 
 
for GBP approval under lease. 
 
The APs have to allow adequate time for LandsD for checking of the up-to-date 
GBP and, where appropriate, LandsD to assess (at its absolute discretion), 
whether or not approval, consent or lease modification as mentioned in 
paragraph 4(II)(d) below should be granted.  
 
(b) 
LandsD will process the checking of the above set of GBP at this stage, 
including but not limited to the checking of area calculations. The up-to-date 
GBP will be approved or accepted under lease if LandsD is satisfied that:  
 
(i) 
the proposed development as shown on the up-to-date GBP complies 
with the lease conditions; or  
 
(ii) 
the irregularities are rectifiable, will be or have been duly rectified to 
the satisfaction of the LandsD under the mechanism mentioned in 
paragraph 4(II)(c) below.   
 
(c) 
If there are errors in area calculations and other non-compliance of 
lease conditions including but not limited to the building works under 
construction do not comply with any of the lease conditions, the lot owner shall 
rectify the situation to the satisfaction of LandsD including but not be limited to 
the demolition or removal of any part or parts of the said building works and the 
making of any corresponding amendments to the GBP.  The AP shall keep the 
6 District Lands Office includes Building Plan Unit and other specialized sections where applicable. 
- 3 - 
 
                                                     

----- page 4/7 -----
BA and other concerned departments fully informed of any amendments made 
to the GBP and obtain, where necessary, the approval of BA or other concerned 
departments to the amendments.  
 
(d)  
Where the errors in area calculations or non-compliance of the lease 
conditions cannot be rectified to the satisfaction of LandsD, the lot owner may 
apply to LandsD for approval, consent, or lease modification as appropriate to 
relax the development control parameter(s) in respect of the specific lease 
conditions or to address the irregularities for the life-time of the buildings built 
or to be built under the GBP.  For the avoidance of doubt, every application 
submitted to LandsD under this provision will be considered on its own merits 
by the Government at its absolute discretion acting in its capacity as a landlord.  
There is no guarantee that the approval, consent, or lease modification applied 
for will be granted by the Government.  The approval, consent, or lease 
modification even if granted, would be subject to such terms and conditions as 
may be imposed by the Government, including the payment of any premium 
and administrative fee as may be determined by the Director of Lands.  Unless 
and until the lot owner shall have confirmed acceptance of such terms and 
conditions and effected payment of the premium and administrative fee (if 
required) as imposed by the Government and the legal document giving effect 
to the approval, consent, or lease modification is duly executed by all parties 
thereto, approval to the GBP will not be given by LandsD. 
 
(III) Stage 3 - Full set of up-to-date GBP submission approved by BA under the BO 
upon or prior to submission of an application for Occupation Permit 
 
(a)  
Upon or prior to an application for Occupation Permit is made to BA, 
the APs are required to: 
 
(i) 
certify and confirm to the relevant DLO that an up-to-date set of GBP 
with quoted drawing numbers and version date has been duly approved 
by BA under the BO; 
  
(ii) 
submit to the relevant DLO direct a full set of the up-to-date GBP duly 
approved by the BA under the BO;   
 
(iii) 
observe and comply with the requirements under LandsD LAO 
Practice Note Nos. 2/2018 and 3/2018 for this submission, including 
without limitation the submission of a DVD-ROM for the area 
calculations electronically; and 
 
(iv) 
certify and confirm that the set of up-to-date GBP submitted to the 
relevant DLO is the same set of GBP which has been or shall be 
referred to the BA in the application for Occupation Permit  
 
for GBP approval under lease. 
 
- 4 - 
 

----- page 5/7 -----
(b) 
LandsD will process the checking of the above set of GBP at this stage, 
including but not limited to the checking of area calculations. The up-to-date 
GBP will be approved or accepted under lease if LandsD is satisfied that:  
 
(i) 
the proposed development as shown on the up-to-date GBP 
complies with the lease conditions; or  
 
(ii) 
the irregularities are rectifiable, will be or have been duly rectified to 
the satisfaction of the LandsD under paragraph 4(III)(c) below. 
 
(c) 
If there are errors in area calculations and other non-compliance of 
lease conditions including but not limited to the completed building works or 
works under construction, which have been or are carried out in accordance 
with the above set of GBP but do not comply with any of the lease conditions, 
the lot owner shall rectify the situation to the satisfaction of LandsD including 
but not be limited to the demolition or removal of any part or parts of the said 
works and the making of any corresponding amendments to the GBP.  The AP 
shall keep the BA and other concerned departments fully informed of any 
amendments made to the GBP and obtain, where necessary, the approval of BA 
or other concerned departments to the amendments.  Failure to comply with any 
lease conditions may result in appropriate lease enforcement actions being taken 
and the lot being re-entered by the Government.    
 
(d) 
No application for approval, consent, or lease modification to relax the 
development control parameter(s) or to address any irregularities or other non-
compliance of lease conditions would normally be entertained by LandsD at this 
Stage.  The AP or lot owner shall rectify any irregularities and non-compliance 
of lease conditions as required by LandsD to the satisfaction of LandsD. 
 
 
Processing Time 
 
5. 
The processing time of GBP submission stated in our Performance Pledges 
which have been posted on our website (www.landsd.gov.hk) remains applicable to 
the 3 stages as outlined above.  For the avoidance of doubt, the processing time is 
counted from the date of valid receipt of submission (i.e. no outstanding information 
required to be submitted by the AP). 
 
 
Workshop Approach 
 
6. 
Currently, where the GBP submission is related to some comprehensive 
development projects involving physical interfacing issues with the Government and 
other public facilities within or adjoining lot, the lot owner or the AP may approach 
the relevant DLO for presentation of the design concept of the proposed development 
and for arrangement of meetings to exchange views on any fundamental issues of 
concerns prior to a GBP submission.  Both sides will be benefited from exchange of 
views at these presentations or meetings in the form of workshop.  LandsD has 
rationalized this administrative arrangement by introducing a workshop approach 
applicable to all types of development as outlined in paragraphs 7 and 8 below. 
- 5 - 
 

----- page 6/7 -----
 
7. 
For the request of workshop arrangement, the AP shall set out clearly in 
writing the purposes of the proposed workshop, e.g. whether it is for a presentation of 
the design concept of the proposed development or redevelopment or for exchange of 
views on the fundamental issues of concern, together with the relevant documents 
(e.g. drawings), for discussion.  Upon receipt of the written request from the AP, the 
relevant DLO will inform the AP as to whether a workshop will be held and the 
corresponding arrangement; or the identified fundamental issues would be considered 
by enquiry submission or other means instead.  Where appropriate, representatives of 
the other Government bureaux or departments may be invited to join the workshop.  
Supplementary information may be required to be provided by the AP or lot owner in 
advance of the workshop or at any time during the process of enquiry submission.  
Request for workshop on walk-in basis will not be entertained.  Depending on 
individual circumstances of each case (such as the complexity of the identified 
fundamental issues), generally, a maximum of two workshops per site may be 
arranged and held prior to a GBP submission, resubmission or major revision.  
 
8. 
Please note that the workshop is not meant to be a forum for the Government 
or the Government’s representatives to confirm whether the proposed design concept 
or any particular aspects of the proposed development complies with the terms and 
conditions of the lease.  The workshop would not and will not touch on any 
interpretation of the terms and conditions of the relevant lease.  The representatives of 
DLO or relevant Government department may however elaborate on the prevailing 
guidelines laid down in the relevant LAO Practice Notes or otherwise in respect of 
checking of building plans and other compliance under leases.  For the avoidance of 
doubt, it is hereby specifically declared that any view or comments expressed by the 
representatives of DLO, the Government bureaux or departments at the workshop are 
made on a “without prejudice” and “no commitment” basis and shall not in any way 
fetter or affect the rights of the Government, the Director of Lands and their officers 
under the relevant lease or the Government’s rights as lessor/landlord in processing 
any GBP submission under lease. 
 
 
Application 
 
9. 
Save for those GBP submissions referred to in paragraph 10 below, the 
Streamlined Process will apply to all NEW GBP submissions (including subsequent 
resubmissions or major revisions) for development and redevelopment projects 
received by LandsD through the Centralized Processing System on or after 1 February 
2019.  For the GBP submissions received by LandsD through the Centralized 
Processing System before the said date, they would continue to be processed in the 
usual manner. 
 
10. 
The Streamlined Process or the workshop approach is not applicable to the 
GBP submissions for redevelopment under virtually unrestricted government lease 
referred to in LAO Practice Note No. 1/2017 or addition and alteration to the existing 
buildings, the building plans submissions of technical nature, such as site formation 
plan, drainage plan, hoarding plan, formation of green/yellow areas and the landscape 
plan / landscape master plan as required under landscape clause of the relevant leases. 
 
- 6 - 
 

----- page 7/7 -----
11. 
It must be noted that nothing in this Practice Note shall in any way fetter or 
affect the rights of the Gove1nment, the Director of Lands and their officers under the 
relevant lease or the Government's rights as lessor/landlord, and all such rights are 
hereby reserved, and that nothing in this Practice Note including any words and 
expressions used shall in any way affect or bind the Government regarding 
interpretation of the terms and conditions of the relevant lease. 
- 7-
(Thomas CHAN) 
Director of Lands 
26 November 2018 
