
----- page 1/7 -----
 
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
 
Practice Note  
 
 
   
Issue No.  5/2019 
 
 
 
 
Application for Waivers for Installation of Radio Base Stations 
for Mobile Services in Existing Buildings  
 
 
 
 
Licences have been granted by the Communications Authority to some mobile 
network operators for providing mobile services in Hong Kong.  The operators may wish to 
install radio base stations and associated equipment(s) and facilities in existing buildings for 
the provision of mobile services.   
 
2. 
 
Installation of radio base stations and associated equipment(s) and facilities in 
any buildings held under leases1 for private residential purposes or other non-commercial 
purposes would be in breach of the user restriction under lease since installation of such radio 
base station and associated equipment(s) are considered to be commercial in nature.  In such 
circumstances, a waiver (“the Waiver”) is required to cover such radio base station and 
associated equipment(s) and facilities.  Apart from the user restriction under lease, the Waiver 
would also need to cover other aspects of any consequential breaches as the case may be, such 
as gross floor area, height, etc.  
 
3. 
 
With effect from 1 April 2019, applications should be made in the form of the 
application letter at Appendix I and should be submitted to the relevant District Lands Office 
of the Lands Department (“LandsD”) at the address as set out in LandsD’s website 
(www.landsd.gov.hk/en/about/enquiries.htm).  Owners may wish to refer to Appendix II for a 
note on the use of the personal data required to be provided in the application.   
 
4.  
 
Owners are advised to engage competent professionals to assist them in 
submitting the applications. 
 
5. 
 
Whilst waivers will continue to be issued subject to such terms and conditions 
including administrative fee as may be determined, the waiver fee for the installation of radio 
base stations in existing buildings will be charged in accordance with the standard rates as set 
out in Appendix III except that for radio base stations installed or to be installed inside 
industrial buildings2, the waiver fees at the standard rates as set out in Appendix IV to LandsD 
Lands Administration Office (“LAO”) Practice Note No. 4/2019 (subject to review from time 
                                                                                                                                                        
 
1 
All references to “lease” in this Practice Note cover Government Lease or Conditions of Sale / Grant / 
Exchange, etc. (as the case may be) and “leases” shall be construed accordingly. 
 
2 
See Footnote 3 in LandsD LAO Practice Note No. 4/2019. 

----- page 2/7 -----
- 2 -
to time) will be charged. Our aim is to issue waivers covered by this Practice Note not later 
than two months from the date of receipt of a valid application. 
6. 
An owner shall pay an administrative fee as and when demanded by LandsD 
upon submission of an application. The administrative fee for the application for the Waiver is 
not refundable, including but not limited to where the owner subsequently withdraws the 
application, or rejects LandsD's offer in respect of the application, or is unable for any reason 
to duly execute the legal document effecting the Waiver in all respects to the satisfaction of 
LandsD or shall in any of the circumstances rendering such administrative fee non-refundable 
as set out in any letters demanding payment thereof. 
7. 
The Waiver, if approved by LandsD under the procedure described above will 
only cover temporary variation to the user restriction under lease. Owners are reminded of the 
need to approach other relevant authorities and departments, such as the Town Planning Board, 
Fire Services Department and Building Authority to ensure compliance with all applicable 
requirements and to obtain all necessary approvals, permits, permissions or licences that may 
be required under any Ordinances, by-laws or regulations that are in force from time to time, 
whether or not the proposed uses that may be required or permitted under the Waiver would 
involve any alteration, structural or otherwise, to the existing building. The issue of the Waiver 
should not be construed as any guarantee by LandsD on the feasibility of the proposed uses of 
the premises nor accepting any liability on the expenses the owners may or had incurred. 
8. 
Every application submitted to LandsD pursuant to this Practice Note will be 
considered on its own merits by LandsD at its absolute discretion acting in its capacity as a 
landlord. The standard rates in Appendix III are subject to review from time to time as the 
Government shall at its sole discretion consider appropriate. This Practice Note shall not 
constitute any representation on the part of the Government or give rise to any expectation on 
the part of the owner that any application submitted to LandsD will be processed or approved. 
9. 
This Practice Note is issued for general reference purposes only. All rights to 
modify the whole or any part of this Practice Note are hereby reserved. 
10. 
LandsD LAO Practice Note Nos. 9/2002, 3/2013 and 1/2015 are superseded by 
this LAO Practice Note No. 5/2019 and another LAO Practice Note No. 4/2019 from 1 April 
2019. 
( Thomas Chan ) 
Director of Lands 
22 March 2019 

----- page 3/7 -----
Appendix I 
Sample of an Application 
 
Application for Waiver for Installation of Radio Base Stations  
for Mobile Services in Existing Buildings 
 
 
To : District Lands Officer,   
 
  
 
 
 
Dear Sirs, 
 
(Address of the Premises and Lot Number being Subject of the Application) 
 
 
I / We, [             (name of the Agent)             as the agent of *]                (name of 
the Applicants)              , [as the (Sole Owner / Owners)* of the captioned Premises] hereby 
apply for a temporary waiver for the purpose of radio base stations for mobile services as 
referred in LandsD LAO Practice Note No. 5/2019 in respect of the captioned premises held 
in relation to the Lease / Special Condition No.                        of Conditions 
of                                              / Special Condition No.                        of New Grant 
No.                       under which the Lot No(s).  
                    is / are held for a period of 
initially ___________ years.   
 
 
 
In order to facilitate consideration of my / our application, I / we attach the 
Checklist of Basic Requirements together with the required documents / information for your 
reference.  I / We understand that if I / we do not provide sufficient documents / information 
including, without limitation, the above required documents / information, the Lands 
Department may not be able to process my / our application.  I / We hereby acknowledge 
that you may nevertheless request for further relevant information or convene meetings to 
clarify any aspects of this application as appropriate and necessary. 
 
I / We hereby expressly declare, confirm, acknowledge and agree that all the 
particulars and the information provided herein and in support of my / our application are true 
and correct in all respects. I / We have not withheld any information required in the 
application, nor have I/we provided any misleading information.  
 
I / We further expressly acknowledge that the personal data provided by me / us in 
this application will be used by the Lands Department in connection with the processing of 
my / our application.  The provision of any personal data requested in the application form 
is voluntary.  I / We hereby authorize the Lands Department to disclose my / our personal 
data in the application and the attached documents to such Government Departments and any 
other body, organization or person(s) as it may see fit at its absolute discretion to obtain such 
information which is deemed relevant to my / our application, whether on policy or any other 
grounds. 
 
 
I / We further authorize and direct and request any Government Department or other 
body which may be approached by the Lands Department to supply any and all documents / 
information which it may require. 
 

----- page 4/7 -----
- 2 - 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
(Agent’s / Applicant(s)’s)* Signature:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(H.K.I.D. Card Number(s): 
 
 
) 
 
Name of the (Agent / Applicant(s))* in Block Letters:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Address:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Telephone Number: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*  Delete as appropriate 
 
 
Notes : 
 
(1) 
Contacts of the District Lands Offices are set out in Lands Department’s website 
(www.landsd.gov.hk/en/about/enquiries.htm) 
 
(2) 
All owners (including intending purchaser under an Agreement for Sale and Purchase of 
the Premises) must sign in the capacity of applicants. 
 

----- page 5/7 -----
- 3 - 
 
 
Checklist of Basic Requirements  
 
Application for Waiver for Installation of Radio Base Stations  
for Mobile Services in Existing Buildings 
 
Information / Documents that must be submitted (1) : 
 
 
 
(i) 
Two copies (2) of a complete set of Government land grant 
documents (including all executed lease modification letters 
and extension letters, if any) affecting the premises (3). 
 
 
(ii) 
Two copies (2) of a computer printout containing the historical 
and current ownership particulars of the premises. 
 
(iii) 
If submitted by an agent, a written authorization from all the 
registered owners and prospective purchasers(4) (if applicable) 
of the premises. 
 
(iv) 
A copy of an up-to-date location / site / floor plan on an 
appropriate scale showing the premises. 
 
(v) 
Two sets of drawings on an appropriate scale detailing the 
proposed telecommunications installations, including the size / 
dimensions of equipment room / shelter, the area covered by the 
equipment, installations, etc. (which may or may not be housed 
in an equipment room or sheltered) and the area of the base 
supporting such equipment, installations, etc., and the number 
of antennae for the radio base stations. 
 
 
Notes : 
(1) 
Please put a tick in the relevant box if applicable unless otherwise specified; and 
delete as appropriate. 
(2) 
One set of documents should be certified by the Land Registry or by the solicitor 
acting for the applicant, while the other set may be a photocopy of the certified 
documents.  Certification of the documents should be done not more than one 
month before submission of the application. 
(3) 
Premises include all premises (including the rooftops and external walls) of the 
existing building(s) under the waiver application. 
(4) 
A prospective purchaser is an intending purchaser under an existing Agreement for 
Sale and Purchase registered in the Land Registry.
 
 

----- page 6/7 -----
Appendix II 
Note on Use of Personal Information Required in the Application 
 
Purpose of Collection 
The personal data provided by means of this form will 
be used by the Lands Department for the purpose of 
considering and processing the application.  The 
provision of personal data by means of this form is 
voluntary. If you do not provide sufficient information, 
the Lands Department may not be able to process your 
application. 
 
 
Class of Transferees 
The personal data you provided by means of this form 
may be disclosed to other Government bureaux / 
departments for the purpose mentioned above. 
 
 
Access to Personal Data 
The applicants have a right of access and correction with 
respect to personal data as provided for in Sections 18 
and 22 and Principle 6 of Schedule 1 of the Personal 
Data (Privacy) Ordinance. Such right of access includes 
the right to obtain a copy of the personal data provided 
on this form. 
 
 
Enquiries 
Enquiries concerning the personal data collected, 
including the request for access and corrections, should 
be addressed to: 
 
 
The Office Personal Data Controlling  
 
Officer of the Lands Department 
 
 

----- page 7/7 -----
Appendix III 
Standard Annual Waiver Fee for Installation of  
Radio Base Stations for Mobile Services in Existing Buildings 
(with effect from 1 April 2019) 
 
 
(i) 
Station area not exceeding 5m²  
with 5 antennae 
 
$ 79,800 p.a. 
(ii) 
Each additional antenna 
 
$ 15,300 p.a. 
(iii) Additional area 
$ 1,350 /m² p.a. 
 
 
Note:  
These standard rates are subject to review from time to time as the Government 
shall at its absolute discretion consider appropriate. 
 
