
----- page 1/7 -----
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Application for 
Issue No. 6/2019 
Special Waiver for Conversion of an Entire Existing Industrial Building 
A lot owner who wishes to apply for a special waiver for conversion of an entire 
existing industrial building1 situated in an area zoned "Industrial", "Commercial" or "Other 
Specified Uses" annotated "Business" ("OU(B)") according to the statutory town plans 
prepared pursuant to the Town Planning Ordinance, any regulations made thereunder and any 
amending legislation (collectively "TPO") may wish to refer to this Practice Note before 
submitting an application to the Lands Department ("LandsD"). LandsD may only consider 
valid applications made for the purpose of this Practice Note which are received by LandsD on 
or before 31 March 2022. Applications received after the said date will not be considered for 
the purpose of this Practice Note. Where the proposed use applied for under the aJTangements 
set out below requires planning pennission from the Town Planning Board ("TPB"), such TPB 
pennission must be obtained before the relevant application is submitted to LandsD and the 
owner must submit proof of such pennission at the time of application. Further information 
may be obtained in respect of the relevant statutory town plans including Outline Zoning Plans 
from the TPB website (www.ozp.tpb.gov.hk/). 
2. 
An owner of an existing industrial building located in a zone designated for 
"Industrial", "Commercial" or "OU(B)" according to the statutory town plans prepared 
pursuant to the TPO may apply under this Practice Note for a special waiver at nil waiver fee 
for change of use of the entire existing industrial building, for its lifetime or until expiry or 
tennination of the current lease2, whichever is the earlier, provided that: 
(a) 
at the time of the application, the age of the existing industrial building is not 
less than 15 years, calculated from the date of issue of the occupation permit for 
the entire industrial building. If more than one occupation pennits have been 
issued for the same building or for buildings on the same lot which are the 
subject of the application, the age of the existing industrial building will be 
calculated from the date of issue of the latest occupation pennit; 
1 
An industrial building refers to flatted factory building, industrial-office building and other building built for 
industrial use where the lot on which the building stands, under the tenns of its lease, shall not be used for any 
purpose other than for industrial or godown purposes or both. Such industrial buildings do not include special 
factories such as those located in industrial estates, storage premises in container tem1inals and flatted factories 
built by the Hong Kong Housing Authority, and those buildings on lots supporting specific industries such as 
cargo handling uses, ship building and repairing, oil storage and refining and production of associated 
chemical by-product, manufacture of polystyrene plastics, manufacture and storage of chlorine, hydrogen and 
textile chemicals, etc. 
All references to "lease" in this Practice Note cover Government Lease or Conditions of Sale I Grant I 
Exchange, etc. (as the case may be) and "leases" shall be construed accordingly. 

----- page 2/7 -----
(b) 
(c) 
the application is submitted by the owner of the lot on which the existing 
industrial building is erected or, if the existing industrial building is in multiple 
ownership, jointly submitted by all existing owners of the lot, together with the 
consent from all mortgagees, chargees and purchasers who have entered into an 
agreement for the sale and purchase of the lot or building or any part thereof 
("Mortgagees, Chargees and Purchasers"); and 
the proposed uses of the existing industrial building to be covered by the special 
waiver shall fall within either the categories of uses always permitted in the 
respective zones under the statutory town plans prepared pursuant to the TPO or 
the categories which require planning permission from the TPB and the relevant 
planning permission has been obtained. 
3. 
The application for the grant of a special waiver under this Practice Note 
satisfying the criteria as set out in paragraph 2 above, if approved by LandsD, shall be subject 
to such tenns and conditions, including the payment of administrative fee, as may be imposed 
by LandsD, including but not limited to the following: 
(a) 
(i) 
Not less than 10% of the total accountable Gross Floor Area ("GF A") calculated 
under the Buildings Ordinance, any regulations made thereunder and any 
amending legislation (collectively "BO") of the existing industrial building, 
after conversion shall be designated, reserved and restricted as the designated 
portion ("Designated Portion") for specific uses ("Specified Uses"), which 
should also be consistent with the town planning requirements set out in 
paragraph 2(c) above, as may be detennined, required or specified by the 
Govemment at its sole and absolute discretion. 
(ii) 
The owner shall, within six (6) calendar months from the date of completion of 
the conversion works, commence to use and, throughout the tenn of the special 
waiver, continue to use the Designated Portion for the Specified Uses on a scale, 
in a ma1mer and in all respects to the satisfaction of the relevant policy bureaux 
and departments of the Govemment. 
(iii) 
If it is in the opinion of the relevant policy bureaux and depa11ments of the 
Govemment that the Designated Portion or any part thereof has ceased to be 
used for the Specified Uses or the extent of the use has so diminished to the 
extent that the Designated Portion or any part thereof is either not being used or 
adequately used for the purposes for which it is designated, reserved or 
restricted for a period of six (6) calendar months, it will constitute a breach of 
the commence and continue to use requirement stated in sub-paragraph (a)(ii) 
above. 
(iv) 
Throughout the tenn of the special waiver, except the Long Lease referred to in 
sub-paragraph (a)(v) below, the owner shall not assign, mortgage, charge, 
demise or part with possession of or otherwise dispose of (which for the 
avoidance of doubt includes but not limited to the grant of any licence or right to 
use or occupy) the Designated Pm1ion. 
(v) 
In the event of any breach, non-performance or non-observance of any of the 
te1m and conditions of paragraphs 3(a)(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above, without 
prejudice to the Govemment's other rights under the special waiver including 
but not limited to tennination of the special waiver, Government may demand 
2 

----- page 3/7 -----
the owner, at his own expense, to execute a lease underletting the Designated 
Portion or any part thereof to be decided by the Government to The Financial 
Secretary Incorporated, a corporation sole incorporated under and by virtue of 
the Financial Secretary Incorporation Ordinance, any regulations made 
thereunder and any amending legislation, ("FSI") upon such tenns and 
conditions (including the payment of a nominal annual rent at $1, if demanded) 
as may be required or specified by the Government at its sole and absolute 
discretion for the residue of the waiver period ("Long Lease") and in such event, 
the owner shall deliver vacant possession of the Designated Portion or the 
relevant part thereof to Govemment free from all incumbrances on or before the 
execution of the Long Lease. 
(b) 
(i) 
The total accountable GF A pennitted under the building plans of the entire 
existing industrial building last approved by the Building Authority before the 
application ("Last Approved Building Plans") shall not be exceeded after the 
conversion works and for the avoidance of doubt, no concession or right in 
respect of additional site coverage or plot ratio under the BO shall be applicable. 
.J. . 
(ii) 
No change to the extemal building structures, increase in building height or 
increase in building bulk will be pennitted except for the following: 
(I) 
demolition of any of the extemal building sh-uctures of the existing 
industrial building (including any change involving demolition works), 
which are accountable for GF A in the Last Approved Building Plans, up 
to a maximum of 10% of the total accountable GF A of the existing 
industrial building as set out in the last approved building plans; and 
(II) 
the recovery of the total accountable GF A that is lost in demolition of 
any of the extemal building structures of the existing building under (I) 
above, by vertical extensions (i.e. building on top of the existing 
building) or horizontal extensions or both to the extemal building 
stmctures within the lot boundary (e.g. outside the building or on the 
podium) provided that the following conditions are met: 
( 1) 
the site coverage of the converted building shall not exceed the 
site coverage pennitted under the BO; and 
(2) 
the building height or site coverage or both shall not exceed the 
building height restriction or site coverage or both specified on 
the statutory town plans prepared pursuant to the TPO or any 
relevant planning pennission for minor relaxation of the 
building height restriction and/or site coverage approved by the 
TPB; 
For the avoidance of doubt, the exceptions under paragraph 3(b )(ii)(l) 
and (II) above do not cover intemal building works (including 
demolition works) that do not involve any change to the extemal 
building structures ("Intemal Conversion Works"). Any lntemal 
Conversion Works within the existing building envelope will continue 
to be pennitted provided that they do not involve any change (including 
ve11ical and/or horizontal extensions) to the extemal building stmctures, 
and/or increase in building height, and/or increase iii building bulk and 
3 

----- page 4/7 -----
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
subject always to the oveniding condition that the total accountable 
GF A in the last approved building plans shall not be exceeded after the 
conversion. Paragraph 3(b)(i) of this Practice Note shall apply to all 
kinds of building works including demolition works, irrespective of 
whether such works may involve change(s) to the external building 
structures; 
(III) 
the erection or placement of machine rooms, air-conditioning units, 
water tanks, stairhoods and similar roof-top structures on the main roof 
of the existing building provided that they are. exempted from the 
calculation of GF A under the BO and they do not occupy more than 50% 
of the roof area of the floor immediately below; and 
(IV) 
the addition of claddings or curtain walls to the outer face of the extemal 
building structures within the lot boundary that are exempted from the 
calculation of GF A under the BO. In the event that such claddings or 
curtain walls protrude beyond the lot boundary upon Government land, 
LandsD may at its sole discretion approve a lease modification subject 
to such terms and conditions as may be imposed by LandsD at its sole 
and absolute discretion, including but not limited to the payment of an 
administrative fee, and with the payment of premium being waived. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the building height restriction, if any, under lease 
must be observed, save that where the building height is exceeded solely for 
reasons of the recovery of the GF A loss under (II) above and/or the erection or 
placement of roof-top structures as pennitted in (III) above, LandsD may at its 
sole discretion waive the non-compliance with building height restriction under 
lease in the special waiver to be granted at nil waiver fee. 
The conversion works required to enable the existing industrial building to be 
used for the uses set out under the special waiver shall in all respects comply 
with the prevailing provisions of the BO and must be completed within three 
years from the date of the special waiver letter. The owner shall provide 
documentary proof of completion of the conversion works (e.g. Fonn BA I 4 or 
completion of works contract documents), which should be certified by an 
Authorized Person (as defined in the BO) or other competent professionals as 
may be accepted by LandsD at its sole and absolute discretion. 
During the validity period of the special waiver, the owner of the lot or of a unit 
in the existing industrial building (except the Designated Portion which is 
subject to the alienation restriction set out in paragraph 3(a)(iv) above) shall not 
sell, assign or otherwise dispose of the lot or such unit or to enter into any 
agreement so to do without the prior written consent of the Director. The owner 
(except the Designated Portion which is subject to the alienation restriction set 
out in paragraph 3(a)(iv) above) should follow the procedures stated in LandsD 
Lands Administration Office Practice Note No. 2/2016 which is also applicable 
to the special waiver under this Practice Note. 
During the validity period of the special waiver, no patt of the building may be 
used for any purposes other than those specified in the special waiver. 
4 

----- page 5/7 -----
4. 
In making an application, the owner may submit infonnation about the 
Designated Portion (including the GFA, location, layout, fittings and furnishes, and any other 
floor conversion proposals) in accordance with paragraph 3(a)(i) above, and the proposed 
Specified Uses of the Designated Portion in the application3. If the owners do not submit the 
above information, the Government will consider them as having no preference in relation to 
the Designated Portion and the Specified Uses. The Government will assess and detennine the 
Designated Portion and Specified Uses. 
In detennining the Designated Portion and the 
Specified Uses, the decision of the Government shall be final. For the avoidance of doubt, all 
costs about the wholesale conversion works of the Designated Portion should be borne by the 
owners. While rental concession for tenants of the Designated Portion is welcomed, the tenns 
and conditions (including the rent payable) of the tenancy remain to be a matter to be agreed 
between the owners and tenants. 
5. 
Upon submission of the application, the owner shall indicate in the Checklist 
attached in Appendix I whether the conversion proposal involves changes mentioned in Items 
(I), (II), (Ill), (IV) in paragraph 3(b)(ii) above, or any combination thereof. If such conversion 
proposal would be in breach of the lease conditions (other than the user restriction to which the 
special waiver relates, or the height restriction to the extent as pennitted under Items (II) and 
(III) in paragraph 3(b)(ii) above), a separate lease modification4 is required. LandsD will 
complete processing the application for lease modification, if approved and granted, before 
proceeding to execute the special waiver. 
6. 
For the avoidance of doubt, upon expiry, tennination or cancellation of the 
special waiver, the lot shall be subject to the original uses and height restrictions, if applicable, 
under lease. Owners may apply for a lease modification for any subsisting uses or erected 
structures in breach of the lease after the expiry, tennination or cancellation of the special 
waiver. 
7. 
The special waiver, if approved by LandsD, shall be executed in the fonn of a 
special waiver letter by the lot owner (if the building is in single ownership) or jointly by all 
existing lot owners (if the building is in multiple ownership) as well as by the Mm1gagees, 
Chargees and Purchasers. The special waiver, if approved, will only be a temporary waiver of 
the user restdction and the conesponding restrictions for Items (II) to (IV) in paragraph 3(b )(ii) 
above under lease. If a lot owner wishes to modify any other tenns and conditions contained in 
the lease, a separate lease modification application should be made which would be processed 
by LandsD separately. 
8. 
An owner shall pay an administrative fee5 as and when demanded by LandsD 
upon submission of an application under this Practice Note. Except in the circumstances 
described in paragraph 15 below, the administrative fee for the application for the special 
waiver is non-refundable, including but not limited to the scenario where the owner withdraws 
3 Owners are suggested to consider those uses in relation to the arts and cultural sectors, creative industries, 
innovation and technology industries, social service or community healthcare facilities, sports and recreational 
uses, or other uses which would bring about wider community benefits. For illustration, owners are encouraged 
to confine their proposed Specified Uses to specific group(s) of target beneficiaries, e.g. small-scale studios for 
arts and cultural practitioners, workshops for young entrepreneurs in the creative industries, incubation space 
for innovation and technology start-ups, elderly service centres, etc. 
4 The lease modification may take such form and contain such conditions as LandsD may consider appropriate for 
the case, including, among others, payment of a premium as appropriate. 
s The amount of administrative fee will be detennined by LandsD from time to time. 
5 

----- page 6/7 -----
the application, or rejects LandsD' s offer in respect of the application or is unable to execute 
the special waiver letter for any reason. 
9. 
Owners are reminded of the need to approach other relevant authorities and 
departments, such as TPB, Fire Services Department and the Building Authority to ensure 
compliance with all applicable requirements and to obtain all necessary approvals, pennits, 
pennissions or licences that may be required under any Ordinances, by-laws or regulations that 
are in force from time to time, whether or not the proposed uses that may be required or 
permitted under the special waiver would involve any alteration, structural or otherwise, to the 
existing building. The issue of the special waiver should not be construed as any guarantee by 
LandsD on the feasibility of the proposed uses of the subject building nor accepting any 
liability on the expenses the owners may or had incurred. 
10. 
If an owner of a lot wishes to revert, after execution of the special waiver, to any 
of the original uses pennitted under the lease but which were not specified in the special 
waiver, he should submit an application to cancel the special waiver to LandsD. Where the lot 
is in multiple ownership, an application for cancellation of the special waiver will need to be 
submitted jointly by all the existing owners of the lot to LandsD, together with the consent of 
the Mortgagees, Chargees and Purchasers. 
11. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the special waiver, if approved and executed, will 
have effect only for the lifetime of the building in existence at the date of issue of the special 
waiver or until the lease tenn of the lot expires or is tenninated, whichever is the earlier. During 
the validity of, or upon expiry, tennination or cancellation of, the special waiver, a premium at 
full market value (i.e. assessment will be made without the benefit of the special waiver) will 
be payable if any modification of any lease condition is applied for or required or approved. 
During the validity of the special waiver, if a lot owner wishes to change any of the special 
waiver conditions, including any change of the uses pennitted under the special waiver, he 
should submit an application to LandsD, which may, at its sole and absolute discretion, decide 
to approve or reject such application and, if approval is to be granted it shall be made upon such 
tenns and conditions (including the payment of any premium or charge) as LandsD may 
consider appropriate. Where the lot is in multiple ownership, the application should be 
submitted jointly by all existing lot owners together with the consent of the Mortgagees, 
Chargees and Purchasers. 
Other Points to Note 
12. 
The application should be submitted to the LandsD at Units 07-11, 27/F, CDW 
Building, 382-392 Castle Peak Road, Tsuen Wan, for the attention of the Industrial Buildings 
Revitalisation Unit ("IBRU"). An applicant may wish to refer to Appendix I for a sample of 
the fonnat of such an application and Appendix II for infonnation on the use ofthe infonnation 
provided in the application. 
13. 
Owners are advised to engage competent professionals to assist them in making 
the applications. 
14. 
In cases where an industrial building or an industrial lot is in multiple 
ownership, the owners shall appoint a finn of solicitors to arrange execution by all interested 
parties of the lease modification letter or special waiver letter (as the case may be), and to 
confinn the up-to-date ownership status for the lot. 
6 

----- page 7/7 -----
15. 
It is a pre-requisite that the existing industrial building under application for a 
special waiver must be located in a zone specified in paragraph 1 above (collectively 
"Designated Zones"), according to the statutory town plans prepared pursuant to the TPO. For 
the avoidance of doubt, an application for a special waiver will be rejected if the zone within 
which the existing industrial building is located in the statutory town plans is changed to one 
other than any of the Designated Zones before the execution of the special waiver by the owner 
and the Govemment. In such event, the administrative fee paid will, at the discretion of 
LandsD, be refunded. 
16. 
Notwithstanding that there is an existing waiver in respect of any parts of the 
existing industrial building ("Existing Waiver"), an application for a special waiver under 
paragraph 2 may be submitted under this Practice Note and the applicable administrative fee 
shall be paid as and when demanded by LandsD. The Existing Waiver shall be deemed to have 
been cancelled or tenninated simultaneously upon execution of the legal document effecting 
the special waiver, and notwithstanding any conditions goveming the Existing Waiver to the 
contrary, no waiver fees and administrative fees paid for the Existing Waiver will be refunded 
and no notice oftenni1~ation will be given or required. 
17. 
For the avoidance of doubt, concmTent application for a lease modification as 
refened in LandsD Lands Administration Office Practice Note No. 2/2019 and a special waiver 
as refened in tlus Practice Note will not be accepted. 
I 8. 
Every application submitted to LandsD pursuant to this Practice Note will be 
considered on its own merits by LandsD at its absolute discretion acting in its capacity as a 
landlord. 
This Practice Note shall not constitute any representation on the part of the 
Govemment or give rise to any expectation on the part of the applicant that any application 
submitted to the LandsD will be processed or approved. 
19. 
This Practice Note is issued for general reference purposes only. All rights to 
modify the whole or any part of this Practice Note are hereby reserved. 
7 
( Thomas Chan ) 
Director of Lands 
2 April 2019 
