
----- page 1/11 -----
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 6/2022 
Lease Modification, Approval and Consent for Exemption of 
Modular Integrated Construction Floor Area from Gross Floor 
Area and Site Coverage Calculations and Relaxation of 
Building Height Restriction under Joint Practice Note No. 8 
Joint Practice Note No. 8 ("JPN 8") promulgated enhanced facilitation measures 
for buildings adopting Modular Integrated Construction ("MiC"). 
This Practice Note ("PN") 
elaborates how lease modification, approval and consent in connection with exemption of MiC 
floor area 1 from gross floor area ("OF A") and site coverage ("SC") calculations and relaxation 
of building height ("BH") restriction under lease2 will be processed by the Lands Department 
(" LandsD "). 
Exemption of MiC Floor Area 
2. 
Leases with OF A and/or SC restrictions entered into after the promulgation of Joint 
Practice Note Nos. 1 and 2 in 2001 and 2002 respectively contain a sub-clause in the "Definition 
of OF A and/or SC" clause that allows the Director of Lands ("the Director") to exempt any . 
floor space exempted by the Building Authority ("BA") for provision of green and innovative 
features from OF A and/or SC calculations. 
MiC is one of the green and innovative features 
and relevant enhanced facilitation measures have been promulgated in JPN 8. 
For leases that 
contain an exemption provision as per Version A in Appendix I(a), exemption of MiC floor 
area will be granted during the building plan checking stage and no premium or administrative 
fee will be demanded by LandsD. 
For leases that contain an exemption provision as per 
Version B or Version C in Appendix l(a), no lease modification is required but the lot owner 
1 
For the purpose of this PN, MiC floor area is the floor area contained within the external walls of the combined 
MiC modules, together with the floor areas of associated construction joints and including the thickness of 
such walls as defined in paragraph 6 of JPN 8 issued in July 2022. 
2 
All references to "lease" in this PN shall include Government Lease or Conditions of Sale/ Grant/ Exchange, 
etc. as the case may be and "leases" shall be construed accordingly. 

----- page 2/11 -----
needs to apply for a consent letter to exclude MiC floor area for which exemption has been 
given by the BA, from GF A and/or SC calculations under lease. 
The .issue of consent letter 
will be subject to payment of premium and administrative fee. ·For leases which do not contain 
any exemption provision in the "Definition of GF A and/or SC" clause as mentioned, a lease 
modification is required to include the specific exemption provision in the leases and then 
followed by a consent letter allowing such MiC floor area for which exemption has been given 
by the BA to be exempted from c.alculations of GF A and/or SC. 
The issue of lease 
modification letter and consent letter will be subject to payment of premium and adrp.inistrative 
fee. 
Fast Track Approach 
3. 
A fast track approach will be introduced for applications for the necessary lease 
modification and/or consent letter for GFA and/or SC exemption for adoption ofMiC. If the . 
application is accepted, LandsD aims to advise the lot owner the terms and conditions of the 
lease modification and/or consent letter as well as the premium and the administrative fee 
chargeable within 10 weeks upon receipt of a valid application. 
Lot owners should submit 
their applications together with the necessary infonnation and documents as per the checklist 
in Appendix II as soon as possible after the BA has granted its exemption for the MiC floor 
area. 
The lot owner shall engage an Authorized Person ("AP") to provide (i) a schedule 
certified by the AP listing out the permissible MiC floor area and the exempted MiC floor area 
approved by the BA (total, domestic and non-domestic); and (ii) ifrelaxation of BH restriction 
is required, an additional certification on the MiC floor(s) identified and the corresponding 
storey height in accordance with Appendix A annexed to JPN 8 for checking and premium 
calculation purposes. 
Details for relaxation of BH restriction are specified in paragraph 4 
below. 
Relaxation of BH Restriction 
4. 
If the BH of a proposed building adopting MiC renders a breach of the BH 
restriction under lease, the lot owner shall apply for (i) an approval letter where the lease 
contains a height clause with a discretionary provision as per Appendix l(b); or (ii) a lease 
modification to include the discretionary provision in the lease and then followed by an 
approval letter under such provision allowing relaxation of BH restriction. The issue of 
modification letter and approval letter will be subject to payment of premium and administrative 
fee. 
If the excessive BH under application does not exceed 4% of the total storey height of 
2 

----- page 3/11 -----
MiC floors3 and is the subject of a. planning application as referred in JPN 8, the application 
for lease modification and/ or approval letter for relaxation of BH restriction will be processed 
together with the application for lease modification and/or consent letter for excluding the MiC 
floor area froin GF A and/or SC calculations in accordance with the fast track approach in 
paragraph 3 above. 
Otherwise, the fast track approach will not apply. 
Premium and Administrative Fee 
5. 
Premium for exemption of GF A and/or SC and/or relaxation of BH restriction or 
any combination of them under lease for adoption of MiC will be charged at standard rates 
having regard to the location of the lot as well as the nature and amount of exempted MiC floor 
area as approved by the BA under application. 
The rates for calculation of premium are 
contained in Appendix III which are non-negotiable and subject to review from time to time 
but in no event earlier than 1 April 2024. The district boundary follows that of the boundary of 
the District Lands Office. 
For lots straddling over two districts, the higher rate shall prevail. 
An administrative fee (subject to review from time to time) currently of $54,800 will be payable 
in addition to the premium. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the rates applicable to the premium 
assessment in respect of any case shall be the rates prevailing at the time of assessment · 
irrespective of the date of the application. The premium payable will be determined by LandsD 
at its absolute discretion and not negotiable. 
Subsequent Changes 
6. 
Upon completion of the lease modification and/or issue of the consent letter and/or 
approval letter, subsequent changes resulting in the exempted· MiC floor area and/or maximum 
eligible relaxation ofBH restriction exceeding the limit(s) stipulated in the consent letter and/or 
approval letter will require a further consent letter and/or approval letter, subject to payment of 
administrative fee and an additional premium if appropriate. 
Additional premium may not be 
charged for any subsequent increase in BH and/or SC approved by the BA provided that there 
is no increase in the exempted MiC floor area for GF A calculation. 
In the event that a 
concerned floor is no longer qualified as a MiC floor due to non-compliance with the minimum 
MiC floor area requirement4 or there is a reduction in the storey height of a MiC floor, the BH 
3 
For the purpose of this PN, (i) MiC floor is taken as a floor of a building where the MiC floor area is not less 
than 50% of the total area on that floor and the total area on that floor means the area of the site on which the 
building is erected that is covered by that floor as defined in paragraph 10 and footnote 5 of JPN 8 issued in 
July 2022; and (ii) storey height of MiC floor is measured from the lowest level of the MiC module to the 
highest level of the MiC module, including the thickness of slab(s), on that MiC floor together with the 
associated construction joints below as referred to in footnote 4 of JPN 8 issued in July 2022. 
4 
For the avoidance of doubt, the minimum requirement of a MiC floor is that the MiC floor area is 50% of the 
total area on that floor as stipulated in footnote 3 of this PN. 
3 

----- page 4/11 -----
relaxation for MiC adoption given under lease will be invalid. 
Premium and administrative 
fee paid are non-refundable for any reasons including but not limited to MiC is not adopted in 
the building proposed to be built, or GF A and/or SC concessions as approved by the BA is 
revoked. 
Further Facilitation 
7. 
When an application for land exchange, land grant or lease modification is being 
processed for a proposed development ("the proposed transaction"), the lot owner/ applicant 
may request for adoption of the exemption provision as per Version A in Appendix l(a) in the 
"Definition of GF A and/or SC" clause to obviate the need for issuing a consent letter to exempt 
the green ,and innovative features (including MiC floor area) for which exemption is given by 
the BA from GF A and/or SC calculations under lease after completion of the proposed 
transaction. · 
8. 
Nothing ·in this PN shall in any way fetter, affect or prejudice the rights of the 
Government, the Director and their officers under the relevant lease or the Government's rights 
as lessor or landlord, and all such rights are hereby reserved. 
Besides, nothing in this PN, 
including any words and expressions used, shall in any way be construed as any variation or 
waiver of any provisions under the relevant lease or affect or bind the Government in relation 
to interpretation or enforcement of the terms and conditions of the relevant lease or otherwise. 
All rights to modify the whole or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. 
This PN takes 
immediate effect. 
4 
( Andrew LAI ) 
Director of Lands 
17 October 2022 

----- page 5/11 -----
Specific Exemption Provision 
Appendix l(a) 
(LAO PN 6/2022) 
in "Definition of Gross Floor Area and/or Site Coverage" Clause under Lease 
Version A . 
( ) 
... the Director at his sole discretion may: 
(i) 
in calculating the gross floor area [or the site coverage] of any building 
or buildings erected or to be erected on the lot [(in addition to any floor 
space which may be excluded by Special Condition[s] No[s]. ( ), () 
and ( ) hereof)], subject to sub-clause ( ) of this Special Condition, 
exclude: 
(I) 
any sunshade, reflector or any floor space that he is satisfied 
is constructed or intended to be used solely for the parking or 
for the loading or unloading of motor vehicles or occupied 
solely by machinery or equipment for any lift, air-
conditioning or heating system or any similar service and any 
space for refuse disposal; 
(II) 
any structure or floor space, including, but not limited to, any 
balcony, utility platform, corridor, lift lobby, communal sky 
garden, acoustic fin, noise barrier, wing wall, wind catcher or 
funnel, 
non-structural prefabricated external wall the 
thickness of which does. not exceed 150 millimetres, or any 
part thereof (all hereinafter referred to as "environmentally 
friendly or innovative features") and any other structure or 
floor space which in the opinion of the Building Authority is 
an environmentally friendly or innovative feature (as to which 
the opinion of the Building Authority shall be conclusive) and 
which, for that reason, has been excluded by the Building 
Authority from the calculation of gross floor area [or site 
coverage] under the Buildings Ordinance, any regulations 
made thereunder and any amending legislation; 

----- page 6/11 -----
Version B 
( ) 
... the Director at his sole discretion may: 
Version C 
(i) 
in calculating the gross floor area [or the site coverage] of any building 
or buildings erected or to be erected on the lot [(in addition to any floor 
space which may be excluded by Special Condition[s] No[s]. ( ), () 
and ( ) hereof)], subject to sub-clause ( ) of this Special Condition, 
exclude: 
(I) 
any sunshade, reflector or any floor space that he is satisfied is 
constructed or intended to be used solely for the parking or for 
the loading or unloading of motor vehicles or occupied solely 
by machinery or equipment for any lift, air-conditioning or 
heating system or any similar service and any space for refuse 
disposal; 
(II) 
subject to the payment by the Purchaser of any premium and 
administrative fee as shall be detennined by the Director: 
(A) 
any structure or floor space, including, but not limited to, 
any balcony, utility platfonn, corridor, lift lobby, 
communal sky garden, acoustic fin, noise barrier, wing 
wall, wind catcher or funnel, non-structural prefabricated 
external wall the thickness of which does not exceed 150 
millimetres, or any part thereof (all hereinafter referred 
to as "environmentally friendly or innovative features") 
and any other structllre or floor space which in the 
opinion of the Building Authority is an environmentally 
friendly or innovative feature (as to which the opinion of 
the Building Authority shall be conclusive) and which, 
for that reason, has been 
excluded by the Building 
Authority from the calculation of gross floor area [or site 
coverage] 
under 
the 
Buildings 
Ordinance, 
any 
regulations made thereunder and 
any amending 
legislation; and 
(B) 
any floor space or structure which has been excluded by 
the Building Authority from the calculation of gross floor 
area [or site coverage] under the Buildings Ordinance, 
any regulations made thereunder and any amending 
legislation; 
( ) ... the Director at his sole discretion may, in determining the gross floor area [or the site 
coverage], exclude .. . or any floor space which the Building Authority may pennit to be 
excluded. 

----- page 7/11 -----
Appendix I(b) 
Discretionary Provision in "Height" Clause under Lease 
( ) no part of any building or other structure erected or to be erected on the lot 
together with any addition or fitting (if any) to such building or structure may exceed 
the aggregate height of { 
} metres above the Hong Kong Principal Datum, or 
such other height limit as the Director at his sole discretion may, subject to the 
payment by the Purchaser of any premium and administrative fee as shall be 
determined by the Director, approve, provided that .. . 

----- page 8/11 -----
Appendix II 
(LAO PN 6/2022) 
Checklist for Submission of an Application for Lease Modification, 
Approval Letter and Consent Letter for Exemption of Modular Integrated 
Construction (MiC) Floor Area from Gross Floor Area (GFA) and Site 
Coverage (SC) Calculations and Relaxation of Building Height (BH) 
Restriction under Joint Practice Note No. 8 (JPN 8) 
A. Information/Docun:ients that must be submitted (I) 
For exemption of GFA and/or SC and/or relaxation of BH 
restriction 
(i) A copy of general building plans ("GBPs") approved by the Building 
Authority ("BA") as per JPN 8 showing the total exempted GF A 
and/or SC for the adoption of MiC and, in the event that relaxation of 
BH restriction is required, the infonnation laid down in Appendix A 
of JPN 8. 
(ii) If submitted by an agent, a written authorization from all the registered 
owners and purchasers who have entered into an Agreement for Sale 
and Purchase of a unit or units ("purchasers") (if applicable) of the 
Property <2>. 
(iii) A schedule certified by an Authorised Person engaged by the 
registered owners and purchasers ("AP") listing out the permissible 
MiC floor areas and the exempted MiC floor area approved by BA 
(total, domestic and non-domestic). 
For relaxation . of BH restriction is required, the followine, in 
addition to the above (i) to (iii), shall also be submitted. 
(iv) The AP's certification of information in GBPs submission m 
accordance with Appendix A annexed to JPN 8. 
D 
D 
D 
D 
B. Information/Documents that must be submitted for application for lease modification (for 
inclusion of clause for (i) exemption of GFA and/or SC; (ii) relaxation of BH restriction)CI): 
(i) 
2 copiesC3) of a complete set of Government Land Sale/ Grant/ 
Exchange documents (including all executed lease modification letters 
and extension letters, if any) affecting the Property. 
(ii) 
A copy of an up-to-date location/ site plan on an appropriate scale 
(normally 1: 1000) showing the Property. 
- 1 -
D 
D 

----- page 9/11 -----
(iii) 2 copies <3) of a computer printout containing the historical and current 
ownership partic~lars of the Property. 
D 
(iv) (a) If any of the registered owners is a limited company, 2 sets of 
certified true copies of its Certificate of Incorporation, Certificate 
of Change of Name (if applicable) and Notice of Situation of 
Registered Office.. For non-Hong Kong companies, documents 
equivalent to the above should be produced. 
D 
(b) If there are any chargees/ mortgagees, letter(s) from the chargees/ 
mortgagees confinning that they have no objection to/ agree to 
enter into the proposed Modification Letter. 
( c) In the event of the Property being in multiple ownership and 
unless otherwise consented to by the Lands Department, a 
summary list (in duplicate) certified by the solicitor acting for the 
applicants containing the names of all registered owners/ 
chargees/ mortgagees/ purchasers (if any) of the Property together 
with details of number of undivided shares held by each owner . 
and an undertaking by the solicitor to inform the Lands 
Department of any change in the names of the registered owners/ 
chargees/ mortgagees/ purchasers between the date of application 
up to the date of the proposed Modification Letter. 
D 
D 
(v) 
Details of the application clearly identifying the Property concerned. 
D 
For concurrent processing of the application for lease modification, consent and/or approval letter for 
the above purposes, applicants are encouraged to submit the necessary documents in one go. 
Notes: 
(l) 
(2) 
(3) 
Please put a tick in the relevant box if applicable unless otherwise specified; and delete 
as appropriate. 
Property includes all lots involved in an application for lease modification, consent and/or 
approval letter. 
One set of documents should be certified by the Land Registry or by the solicitor acting 
for the applicant, while the other set may be a photocopy of the certified documents. 
Certification of the documents should be done not more than one month before 
submission of the application. 
- 2 -

----- page 10/11 -----
Note on Use of Personal Information Required in the Application 
Purpose of Collection 
Class of Transferees 
Access to Personal Data 
Enquiries 
The personal data provided in application pursuant to this 
Practice Note and Appendix II will be used .by the Lands 
Department for the purpose of considering and processing the 
application. 
The provision of the personal data is obligatory. 
If you do not provide the personal data, the Lands Department 
may not be able to process your application. 
The personal data you provided may be disclosed to other 
Government bureaux I departments for the purpose inentioned 
above. 
The individual who is the subject of the personal data has a right 
of access and correction with respect to personal data as 
provided for in Sections 18 and 22 and Principle 6 of Schedule 
1 of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486). Such 
right of accessincludes the right to obtain a copy of the personal 
data provided upon payment of the applicable charge. 
Enquiries concerning the personal data collected, including the 
request for access and corrections, should be addressed to: 
Departmental Personal Data Controlling 
Officer of the Lands Department 
20/F., North Point Government Offices 
333 Java Road, North Point 
Hong Kong 

----- page 11/11 -----
Notes: 
Appendix III 
(LAO PN 6/2022) 
Standard Rates for Premium Calculation for Exemption of Gross Floor Area 
(GFA) and/or Site Coverage and Relaxation of Building Height Restriction 
arising from the adoption of Modular Integrated Construction (MiC) under 
Joint Practice Note No. 8 
Location of the LotCl) 
User of Development 
DomesticC2) C3l 
Non-DomesticC2) C3) 
Hong Kong/ Kowloon 
$10,590/m2 
$6,490/m2 
Shatin/ Sai Kung 
$6,740/m2 
$4,820/m2 
Kwai Tsing/ Tsuen Wan 
$6,800/m2 
$4,820/m2 
Tuen Mun/ Yuen Long 
$4,l lO/m2 
$2,290/m2 
Tai Po/ North 
$5,090/m2 
$3,040/m2 
Islands 
$4,930/m2 
$2,880/m2 
CI) 
The district boundary follows that of the boundary of the District Lands Office. For lots 
straddling over two districts, the higher rate is appiicable. 
(l) 
The rate refers to the unit rate per exempted MiC floor area (m2) . The premium to be 
charged is the rate of the corresponding district multiplied by the exempted MiC floor area 
approved by the Building Authority ("BA"). For the avoidance of doubt, exempted MiC 
floor area(s) will be rounded up to the nearest O. lm2 when assessing the premium payable. 
The premium payable is to be determined by the Lands Department ("LandsD") at its 
absolute discretion and not negotiable. 
C3l 
LandsD has the absolute discretion to apply the appropriate type of rate according to the 
nature of the development and the lease governing the lot. If the exempted MiC floor area 
has not been specified in the general building plans approved by the BA whether it is 
domestic GF A or non-domestic GF A, the domestic user standard rate will be adopted for 
the purpose of premium calculation. 
