
----- page 1/2 -----
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department
Practice Note 
Issue No. 6/2024 
即
Building Plan Submissions 
Use of Building Information Modelling for Mathematical Calculation of Areas 
To promote the adoption of Building Information Modelling (“BIM”) technology in 
private development projects, the Lands Department (“LandsD”) with effect from the issuance of 
this Practice Note (“PN”) accepts BIM files for area calculations in general building plans 
(“GBP”) submissions, in addition to the Computer-Aided Design drawing files allowed under 
Lands Administration Office Practice Note Issue No. 3/2018. This PN advises on the general 
requirement for the use of BIM in area calculations in GBP submissions for compliance checking 
under lease1. 
2. 
This PN is to be read in conjunction with paragraph 24 of Practice Note for 
Authorized Persons, Registered Structural Engineers and Registered Geotechnical Engineers 
(“PNAP”) ADM-19 on “Building Approval Process” and PNAP ADV-34 on “Building 
Information Modelling (BIM)”, issued by the Buildings Department (“BD”), which advise on 
the use of BIM in the preparation of GBP submissions to BD. 
General Requirement 
3. 
When BIM files are used to demonstrate area calculations in a GBP submission, the 
Authorized Person (“AP”) should fulfil the requirements stated in the “Guidance Notes on Use 
of Building Information Modelling for Mathematical Calculation of Areas” (“the Guidance 
Notes”), available on LandsD website (https://www.landsd.gov.hk). In particular, for GBP 
submissions in hardcopy format, BIM files should be submitted in a form of non-rewritable 
DVD-ROM diskette(s). For GBP submissions via Electronic Submission Hub (“ESH”)2, BIM 
1 All references to “lease” in this PN shall include Government Lease or Conditions of Sale/Grant/Exchange, etc. and “lease” 
shall be construed accordingly. 
2 ESH, being a digital platform for receiving and processing of building plans, documents and applications submitted under the 
Buildings Ordinance (Cap. 123), serves an alternative means to the paper-based mode of submission. 

----- page 2/2 -----
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
files should be uploaded simultaneously with the electronic copy through ESH. In parallel with 
the submission of GBP and BIM files, AP should also submit a set of Coloured Building Plans3 
to facilitate compliance checking under lease. A GBP submission may be rejected without 
further checking if (i) these requirements and (ii) the time frame or technical requirements as set 
out in the Guidance Notes are not complied with. 
Consent to the Use of BIM Data 
4. 
BIM files submitted to LandsD in support of a GBP submission will also be used for 
updating 3-Dimensional Digital Map and other spatial data. The BIM files will also be kept in 
the Government BIM Data Repository to facilitate smart city applications of the Government, 
such as city pla画ng and urban design. The submission of BIM files from AP will be taken as 
pennitting the use of the BIM models for such purposes by the Government. 
Application and Effective Date 
5. 
For the avoidance of doubt, any approval or disapproval under lease will only be given 
to a GBP submission either in hard copy format or electronic format accepted by BD under 
PNAP ADM-17. In case of any discrepancy between the GBP submission and BIM files 
submitted, the GBP submission shall prevail. 
6. 
This PN takes immediate effect and applies to all GBP submissions with BIM files 
submitted (including re-submissions, major revisions or any amendments). 
( Maurice L OO) 
Director of Lands 
30 September 2024 
3 Coloured Building Plans should be prepared in accordance with paragraphs 6 to 9 of the Guidance Notes which must be 
identical to the floor layout plans in the GBP and duly coloured to show the extent of site coverage,. transfer plate and gross 
floor area accountable and non-accountable areas under lease. 
