
----- page 1/2 -----
Lands Administration Office 
I i i ~ 
Lands Department 
~ 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 7/2023 
Access to Computerized "A" Rent Rolls Record 
District Lands Offices of the Lands Department ("LandsD") in the New 
Territories 1 ("NTDLOs") maintain "A" Rent Rolls, generally known as "A Book", for 
the purpose of collection of Government rent. To improve operational efficiency and 
record management as well as to promote E-Government, LandsD has recently 
completed the computerization of all the "A Book" in NTDLOs. 
2. 
With effect from 10 July 2023, NTDLOs will allow access to the information in 
the electronic "A Book" subject to prescribed conditions. As the "A Book" contains 
personal information of the respective property owner apart from the information of his 
property, only property owners and the persons authorized by them may have access to 
their personal information contained in the "A Book" in order to comply with the 
provisions of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486). In general, 
(1) a property owner or his authorized person, may inspect the electronic 
"A Book" of the property(ies) under his name in the respective offices 
of NTDLOs free of charge. He may obtain a printed report of the 
information relating to such property(ies) contained in the electronic 
"A Book" .subject to a charge; and 
(2) members of the public may inspect the electronic "A Book" of 
property(ies) solely owned by a deceased owner, a Tso/Tong or a 
company as well as property(ies) jointly owned by any of such parties 
free of charge. They may obtain a printed report of the information 
relating to any property(ies) contained in the electronic "A Book" 
subject to a charge. 
The printed report is currently charged at $325 per property and is subject to revision 
from time to time. It will contain the following information: 
(a) Lot number; 
(b) New Grant/Building Licence number; 
( c) Site Area; 
( d) Annual Government rent; 
(e) Class/User of the lot; 
(f) Land Registry memorial information, if available; and 
(g) Rent concession status (only for property owner and his authorized 
person). 
1 NTDLOs refer to District Lands Office ("DLO")/Islands, DLO/North, DLO/Sai Kung, DLO/Sha Tin, 
DLO/Tai 'Po, DLO/Tsuen Wan and Kwai Tsing, DLO/Tuen Mun and DLO/Yuen Long. 

----- page 2/2 -----
3. 
With the launch of the above electronic service, the existing arrangement of 
NTDLOs of allowing property owners and their authorized persons to inspect the original 
"A Book" will cease. 
· 
4. 
Applications for access to the information in the electronic "A Book" should be 
submitted to the respective NTDLOs by completing the application form in Annex A, B, 
or C and where appropriate the consent form in Annex D. Applicants should however 
note that information contained in "A-Book" is intended only for the internal use of 
LandsD and thus is not public records. LandsD makes no representation or warranty as 
to the accuracy and correctness of the contents of "A Book". Applicants are advised to 
verify the information obtained from "A Book", conduct land search at the Land Registry 
or seek their own legal advice as appropriate. 
5. 
This Practice Note is issued for general reference purposes only. All rights to 
modify the whole or any part of this Practice Note are hereby reserved. 
6. 
LandsD Lands Administration Office Practice Note Nos. 6/2006 and 6/2006A 
are hereby superseded. 
{tcw 
(Andrew Lai) 
Director of Lands 
10 July 2023 
