
----- page 1/3 -----
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Streamlined Arrangement on 
Issue No. 8/2025 
General Building Plan Approval, Design, Disposition and Height or 
Design and Disposition Approval, and Landscaping Proposal Approval 
in connection with Residential Units in Uncompleted Developments 
This Practice Note ("PN") sets out the streamlined arrangement by the Lands 
Department ("LandsD") for issuing phased general building plan ("GBP") approval, phased 
design, disposition and height ("DDH") / design and disposition ("DD") approval, and phased 
landscaping proposal approval under lease 1• 
2. 
CuiTently, to ensure compliance with the conditions of the Government lease as a 
whole, the approvals of GBP, DDH/DD and landscaping proposal are issued on a whole-lot 
basis, whether or not the development is a phased development. Paragraphs 8.1 and 8.2 of 
Section III of the Annex to the Legal Advisory and Conveyancing Office Circular 
Memorandum ("LACO CM") No. 72E provide that before a pre-sale consent is issued, all 
necessary approvals by the Government as required under the Govenunent lease must be 
obtained by the developer, including but not limited to approvals of DDH, master layout plan, 
landscaping proposal, carpark layout plan, natural terrain hazard mitigation and stabilization 
works plans, and deed of mutual covenant incorporating management agreement. 
Streamlined Arrangement 
Phased GBP approval and phased DDH/DD approval 
3. 
In order to expedite the development process of residential units in a phased 
development, facilitate the issue of pre-sale consent in respect of part of the development, and 
enhance flexibility in addressing the lease requirements relating to the development in a later 
stage, LandsD will consider an application from a developer seeking approval of GBP and 
DDH/DD (if applicable) by phase covering a specific part of the development, which is a 
"phase" as defined under the Residential Properties (First-hand Sales) Ordinance (Cap. 621). 
1 All references to "lease" in this PN shall include Government Lease or Conditions of Grant/Sale/Exchange, as 
the case may be. 

----- page 2/3 -----
4. 
An application for phased approval of GBP or phased approval of DDH/DD must 
be made by the Authorised Person ("AP") for the applicant at the time of submission to LandsD 
of the full set of up-to-date GBP at stage 2 of the Streamlined Building Plans Checking Process 
pursuant to the Lands Administration Office Practice Note No. 4/2018. 
In making the 
application, the AP should also submit to LandsD the phasing plans of the development as 
approved by the Building Authority ("BA") under section 14(1) of the Buildings Ordinance 
(Cap.123) ("Phasing Plans"). To ensure the proper development of the whole lot, the applicant 
is required to comply with the conditions as may be imposed by LandsD, including but not 
limited to the following conditions:-
(a) 
There is a clear delineation in the Phasing Plans of the relevant phase under 
application and the Phasing Plans fulfil the corresponding lease requirements. 
(b) 
All the relevant lease requirements of the phase concerned have been complied with 
to the satisfaction of LandsD (e.g. Consent Letter for exemption of balconies and 
utility platfonns from calculation of gross floor area ("GF A") and/or site coverage 
("SC") and Consent Letter allowing floor area for which exemption has been given 
by BA for adoption of Modular Integrated Construction to be exempted from 
calculation of GF A and/or SC, etc have been obtained). 
( c) 
Certification by the AP that there is no insunnountable problem for the applicant to 
design the development to comply with the lease requirements for the remaining 
phase(s). 
Phased landscaping proposal approval 
5. 
For a case with phased approval of GBP or phased approval of DDH/DD issued, 
LandsD will also consider an application for phased approval of landscaping proposal. An 
application for phased approval of landscaping proposal will be considered on a case-by-case 
basis and examined on its own merits. For cases where an approval for landscaping proposal 
is to be given by other Govermnent department(s) prior to the issue of phased approval of 
landscaping proposal by LandsD (e.g. cases with planning condition), phased approval of 
landscaping proposal will be deemed to be given for the purpose of issuing a pre-sale consent 
upon approval being given by the other Government department(s) of the phased landscaping 
proposal. 
6. 
After obtaining phased approval of GBP, phased approval ofDDH/DD or phased 
approval oflandscaping proposal, if the applicant intends to apply for a pre-sale consent for the 
phase of the development, it should also obtain other lease approvals as required in paragraphs 
8.1 and 8.2 of Section III of the Am1ex to LACO CM No. 72F issued today, which are issued 
on a whole-lot basis. 
7. 
The streamlined arrangement set out in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of this PN takes 
immediate effect. 

----- page 3/3 -----
8. 
It must be noted that nothing in this PN shall in any way fetter or affect or prejudice 
the rights of the Government, the Director of Lands and their officers under the relevant lease 
or the Government's rights as lessor/landlord, and all such rights are hereby reserved. Nothing 
in this PN including any words and expressions used shall in any way be construed as any 
waiver of any provisions under lease or affect or bind the Government in relation to the 
interpretation or enforcement of the tenns and conditions of the relevant lease or otherwise. 
Each application submitted will be considered on its own merits by LandsD at its sole and 
absolute discretion acting in its capacity as lessor/landlord, which shall be final and binding. 
( Maurice LOO) 
Director of Lands 
17 April 2025 
