
----- page 1/13 -----
n7 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Issue No. 9/2025 
Gross Floor Area Exemption Arrangement 
for Above印-ments
The Buildings Department ("BO") has promulgated a new arrangement for 
disregarding car parking spaces provided at or above ground level ("Aboveground Parking 
Spaces'') 己car park ancillary areas1 from gross floor area (''GF A'') calculation vide its revised 
Practice Note for Authorized Perso1ts, Registered Structural Engineers and Registered 
Geotechnical Engineers No. APP-2 ("PNAP APP-2'') on "Calculation of Gross Floor Area and 
Non-accountable Gross Floor Area - Building (Planning) Regulation 23(3)(a) and (b)''in 
November 20252 (''the GF A Exemption Arrangement"). This Practice Note ("PN") sets out the 
streamlined procedures of the Lands Department ("LandsD") to deal with the GF A Exemption 
Arrangement under lease3. 
Streamlined procedures to deal with the GFA Exemption Arrangement under lease 
2. 
The GFA Exemption Arrangement applies to all new building platlS (i.t1cluding major 
revision) for new developments submitted to BA for approval on or after 1 November 2025, but 
not existing buildings. It will be effected under lease in the following streamlined manner:-
(a) For new l~ases of land sale sites (whether by auction or tender) 
1 According to footnote 5 in Appendix C of PNAP APP-2 (as defined in paragraph 1 of this PN), the ancillary areas 
serving the parking spaces including reasonable size driveways, ra唧s, lift shafts and lobbies of car/passenger 
lifts and staircases, may be disregarded from GFA calculation. 
2 
The GFAExemptiouArrangement is set out in paragraphs 15 to 18 of PNAP APP-2 and further elaborated in its 
Appendix C. As provided in paragraph 18(b),not more than two floors of Aboveground Parking Spaces may 
be 100% disregarded from GFA calculation by the Building Autl1ority ("BA") under the Buildings Ordinance 
("BO") under normal circwnstances. However, paragraph 7 of its Appendix C provides that if there are specific 
site constraints rendering it impossible to fully utilise the site for construction of the aboveground carparking 
floors such that it is necessary to provide split levels or stack up the car parking spaces in multi-levels ("site 
constraint situation"), more than two aboveground carparking floors may be 100% disregarded from GF A 
calculation by BA on the condition that the total floor area of the aboveground carpark would not exceed twice 
the site area. 
3 
All references to "lease" in this PN shall include Govemn1ent Lease or Condition.~ of Grant I Sale / Exchange, 
as the case may be. 

----- page 2/13 -----
(i) 
Provisions will be included in the lease:-
(I) 
granting 100% GF A exemption for parking spaces provided below the 
ground level and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces and the 
Aboveground Parking Spaces in any two floors and the ancillary areas 
serving such parking spaces; 
(II) 
granting 100% GF A exemption for the Aboveground Parking Spaces in 
any floors other than the two floors referred to in paragraph 2(a)(i)(I) above 
("the Additional Floors") and the ancillary areas serving such parking 
spaces, which have been 100% disregarded by BA from GF A calculation 
under the BO, as may be 唧roved by the Director of Lands ("the Director") 
in writing; and 
(III) granting 50% GF A exemption for any Aboveground Parking Spaces (other 
than those referred to in paragraphs 2(a)(i)(I) and 2{a)(i)(II) above) and the 
ancillary areas serving such parking spaces. 
(ii) 
The GFA exemption in paragraph 2(a)(i) above (as well as the 唧roval of the 
Director as required) will be granted under lease during the building plan 
checking stage and no sep arate 唧l ication to LandsD or payment of premium 
or administrative fee will be required. 
(b) For new leases (other than those referred to in paragraph 2(a) above) and lease 
modifications (including land exchange but excluding minor modification and 
technical modification) 
(i) 
Provisions will be included in the lease or the modification letter granting:-
(I) 
100% GF A exemption for parking spaces provided below the ground level 
and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces and the Aboveground 
Parking Spaces in any two floors and the ancillary areas serving such 
parking spaces; and 
(II) 
50% GF A exemption for any other Aboveground Parking Spaces (other 
than those referred to in paragraph 2(b)(i)(I) above and in paragraph 2(b)(ii) 
below) and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces. 
(ii) 
In addition, a sub-clause will be added to the provisions to the effect that, if the 
Aboveground Parking Spaces in the Additional Floors and the ancillary areas 
2 

----- page 3/13 -----
serving such parking spaces are 100% disregarded by BA from GF A calculation 
under the BO, subject to the written approval of the Director who may at his sole 
discretion require payment of premium and administrative fee, 100% GF A 
exemption may be granted for those Aboveground Parking Spaces and the 
ancillary areas serving such parking spaces. The determination shall be at the 
sole and absolute discretion of the Director. 
(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph 2(b)(ii), for the site constraint situation mentioned in 
footnote 2 of this PN where the total floor area of the Aboveground Parking 
Spaces and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces do not exceed twice 
the site area such that more than two floors of the Aboveground Parking Spaces 
and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces are 100% disregarded from 
GPA caiculation by BA under the BO pursuant to the GPA Exemption 
Arrangement, premium and administrative fee may generally not be charged for 
the written approval of the Director for granting 100% GF A exemption for these 
Abovegr_ound Parking Spaces in the Additional Floors and the ancillary areas 
serving such parking spaces under lease. 
(iv) At the building plans submission stage, if the Aboveground Parking Spaces in 
the Additional Floors and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces have 
been 100% disregarded by BA from GFA calculation under the BO, the lot 
owner may唧ly to LandsD for 唧roval to exclude the GF A in full of the 
Aboveground Parking Spaces in the Additional Floors and the ancillary areas 
serving such parking spaces under lease. The specified exempted GF A ("the 
Specified Exempted GF A") will be stipulated in the approval letter4. 
(v) 
In the event of any subsequent changes in the GF A of the Aboveground Parking 
Spaces in the Additional Floors and the ancillary areas serving such parking 
spaces that have been 100% disregarded by BA under the BO pursuant to the 
GFA Exemption Arrangement, resulting in the GFA of the Aboveground 
Parking Spaces in the Additional Floors and the ancillary areas serving such 
parking spaces calculated under lease exceeding the Specified Exempted GF A 
stipulated in the approval letter, the lot owner is required to apply to LandsD for 
4 
The Specified Exempted GFA to be stipulated in the approval/ consent letter is the difference between the GFA 
of the Aboveground Parking Spaces in the Additional Floors and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces 
calculated under lease before and after the approval of the Director is granted, or the Aboveground Parking 
Spaces and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces referring in paragraph (2)(d) calculated under lease 
before and after the approval / consent of the Director is granted. For example, if the Aboveground Parking 
Spaces in the Additional Floors and the ancillary areas serving such p ar如ng spaces are 50% GFA accountable 
under lease and the approval under application is to seek 100% exclusion of the same from GFA calculation, the 
Specified Exempted GFA in the approval letter will be equal to 50% of the floor area of the Aboveground Par乓g
Spaces in the Additional Floors and the ancillary areas serving such p ar缸ng spaces. 
3 

----- page 4/13 -----
a further approval which may be granted subj ect to payment of additional 
premium and administrative fee as the Director shall at his sole and absolute 
discretion determine for the additional GF A disregarded. 
(c) For leases subj ect to the requirement of construction of public parking spaces 
The GF A exemption provisions and approval arrangements mentioned in paragraphs 
2(a) and 2(b) above are applicable to ancillary parking spaces in a private development 
("private parking spaces"), and where appropriate, may be applicable to parking spaces 
in a public vehicle park (if any) in a private development ("public parking spaces") on 
the advice of the Planning Department at the time of lease preparation. If the public 
parking spaces are 100% GF A accountable towards the pennissible GF A under the 
relevant statutory town.plan for the site no matter whether they are provided above, at 
or below ground level, the GF A accountability as the same to the statutory town plan 
will be explicitly reflected in the leases or the modification letter. 
(d) For existing leases containing GF A exemption provisions 
For (i) existing leases containing the GFA exemption provisions in Version 1 or 
Version 2 of Appendix I or (ii) existing leases without any specific GF A exemption 
provision in respect of the Aboveground Parking Spaces but containing the GFA 
exemption flexibility provision empowering the Director to exclude from GF A 
calculation any floor space which has been excluded by BA subject to payment of 
premium and administrative fee (e.g. the provisions in Appendix 11), the lot owner may 
apply to LandsD for an approval / consent letter to exclude from GF A calculation 
under lease those Aboveground Parking Spaces and the ancillary areas serving such 
parking spaces, which are GF A accountable under lease (either in full or 50%) but 
have been 100% disregarded by BA from GFA calculation under the BO pursuant-to 
the GF A Exemption Arrangement. The issue of the approval / consent letter will be 
subject to payment of premium and administrative fee for the Specified Exempted 
GF A 4&5. 
In the event of any subsequent changes in the GF A of the Aboveground 
Parking Spaces and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces that have been 
100% disregarded by BA under the BO pursuant to the GF A Exemption Arrangement, 
resulting in the GF A of the Aboveground Parking Spaces and the ancillary areas 
serving such parking spaces calculated under lease exceeding the Specified Exempted 
GF A stipulated in the approval / consent letter, the lot owner is required to apply to 
LandsD for a further approval/ consent letter which may be granted subj ect to payment 
5 For the avoidance of doubt, for leases with GFA exemption provision in Version 2 of Appendix I, unless in the 
opinion of BA that at least two floors below ground level fully utilizing the lot are provided for parking and 
loading and unloading purposes, all the Aboveground Parking Spaces will be taken as 50% GFA accountable for 
the "before" situation of the approval / consent application. 
4 

----- page 5/13 -----
of premium and administrative fee as the Director shall at his sole and absolute 
discretion determine for the additional GF A disregarded. 
(e) For existing leases without GF A exemption provisions 
For existing leases without any specific GF A exemption provision in respect of the 
Aboveground Parking Spaces and any GF A exemption provisions mentioned in 
paragraph 2(d) above, the lot owner may apply to LandsD for a lease modification to 
add a GFA exemption provision similar to those in Appendix II to the lease together 
with an approval/ consent letter to exclude the Specified Exempted GFA (as detailed 
in footnote 4) from GFA calculation under lease. 
For such lease modification 
application submitted in conjunction with an approval / consent application, the lease 
modification will be subj ect to nil premium, whereas the approval/ consent letter for 
the Specified Exempted GFA will be subj ect to payment of premium and only one 
administrative fee will be charged for the lease modification and the 唧roval / consent 
letter. In the event of any subsequent changes in the GF A of the Aboveground Parking 
Spaces and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces that have been 100% 
disregarded by BA under the BO pursuant to the GF A Exemption Arrangement, 
resulting in the GF A of the Aboveground Parking Spaces and the ancillary areas 
serving such parking spaces calculated under lease exceeding the Specified Exempted 
GF A stipulated in the 唧roval / consent letter, no lease modification is required, but 
the lot owner has to apply to LandsD for a further approval/ consent letter which may 
be granted subj ect to payment of premium and administrative fee as the Director shall 
at his sole and absolute discretion determine for the additional GF A disregarded. 
(f) Premium and Administrative Fee 
(i) 
To facilitate timely determination by LandsD of the Specified Exempted GF A 
under paragraphs 2(b), 2(d) and 2(e) above, the lot owner shall provide LandsD 
with the GF A calculations of the Aboveground Parking Spaces concerned and 
the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces on the basis of their GF A 
accountability under lease6, which shall be certified by the Authorized Person 
(as defined under the BO) appointed by the lot owner. LandsD will then consider 
and determine the Specified Exempted GF A and carry out premium assessment. 
LandsD reserves the right to require the lot owner to provide additional 
supporting information and/or documents to facilitate processing of the approval 
/ consent letter application and the lot owner shall within such time as required 
6 Unless the leases specify otherwise, GFA accountability of the ancillary areas serving parking spaces under lease 
shall be determined in accordance with the calculation basis as set out in paragraphs 9 and 12 in Appendix C of 
PNAP APP-2 and BD's ruling will generally be followed. 
5 

----- page 6/13 -----
by LandsD provide the information and/or documents. The decision of LandsD 
on the Specified Exempted GFA will be final and binding on the lot owner. 
(ii) 
For 唧roval / consent letter applications involving only GF A exemption for 
private parking spaces at or above ground level and the ancillary areas serving 
such parking spaces disregarded from GF A calculation by BA under the GF A 
Exemption Arrangement, premium will be charged at the standard rate as set out 
in Appendix III and, subject to review from time to time, an administrative fee 
at the current rate of $90,750 will be payable in addition to the premium. The 
standard rate for calculation of premium is subject to review from time to time 
but in no event earlier than 1 November 2026. Fo訌pproval / consen且pp l ications
involving GF A exemption for public parking spaces or a mix of both public 
parking spaces and private parking spaces and the ancillary areas serving such 
parking spaces disregarded from. GF A calculation by BA under the GF A 
Exemption Arrangement, premium and administrative fee will be assessed in 
accordance with the existing mechanism on a case-by-case basis. 
(iii) For the avoidance of doubt, the standard rate applicable to premium assessment 
referred to in paragraph 2(f)(ii) above shall be the rate prevailing at the time of 
assessment irrespective of the date of the application, and the premium payable 
will be determined by the Director at his sole and absolute discretion and is non-
negotiable. 
Fast-track Approach 
3. 
A fast-track 唧roach will be introduced for processing尹i cations for the lease 
modification and/or 唧roval / consent letter in paragraphs 2(b), 2(d) and 2(e) above. For 
唧l ications involving only GF A exemption for private parking spaces and the ancillary areas 
serving such parking spaces, LandsD aims to advise the lot owner of the terms and conditions of 
the lease modification and/or the approval / consent letter as well as the premium assessed based 
on the standard rate (if applicable) and the administrative fee chargeable within 10 weeks upon 
receipt of a valid application. For applications involving GF A exemption for public parking 
spaces or a mix of both public parking spaces and private parking spaces and the ancillary areas 
serving such parking spaces, LandsD aims to advise the lot owner of the terms and conditions of 
the lease modification and/or approval / consent letter as well as the premium assessed in 
accordance with the existing mechanism on a case-by-case basis and the administrative fee 
chargeable within 16 weeks upon receipt of a valid application. Lot owners shall submit their 
applications together with the necessary information and documents as per the checklist in 
Appendix IV as soon as possible after the building plans submitted in respect of the GF A 
Exemption Arrangement are 唧roved by BA. 
6 

----- page 7/13 -----
4. 
For the avoidance of doubt, this PN caters for new leases and lease modifications and/or 
approval/ consent letters in respect of the Aboveground Parking Spaces disregarded by BA under 
the GF A Exemption Arrangement only. The fast-track 唧roach and standard rate at Appendix 
III do not apply to applications for lease modification which also involve variations of some other 
terms and conditions in the lease, including but not limited to the exclusion of private and/or public 
parking spaces provided below ground level from the calculation of the total GFA under lease, in 
which case the lease modification will be processed under normal procedures and the premium 
will be assessed holistically under the conventional premium assessment mechanism. 
5. • 
Nothing in this PN shall in any way fetter, affect or prejudice the rights of the 
Go:ernment, the Director and their officers under the relev'.111t lease or the Government's rights 
as lessor or landlord, and all such rights are hereby reserved. Besides, nothing in this PN, 
induding any words and expressions used, shall in any way be construed as any variation or 
waiver of any provisions under the relevant lease or affect or bind the Government in relation to 
interpretation or enforcement of the terms and conditions of the relevant lease or otherwise. All 
rights to modify ·the whole or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. This PN takes immediate 
effect. 
6. 
LandsD Lands Administration Office PN Issue No. 3/2025 is hereby superseded. 
zz 
(Maurice Loo) 
Director of Lands 
4 November 2025 
7 

----- page 8/13 -----
Version 1 
 
 
Parking spaces etc. 
excluded from 
gross floor area 
calculation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version 2 
 
(  ) 
(a) 
For the purpose of calculating the total gross floor area referred 
to in Special Condition No. (  )(  ) hereof, 
 
(i) 
there shall not be taken into account 
 
(I) 
the spaces provided in accordance with Special 
Conditions Nos. ( ) (as may be varied under Special 
Condition No. (  ) hereof) and (  ) hereof if they are 
provided below ground level; and 
 
(II) 
the spaces provided in accordance with Special 
Condition No. (  ) hereof (as may be varied under 
Special Condition No. ( ) hereof) if they are 
provided at or below ground level; 
 
(ii) 
if the spaces provided in accordance with Special 
Conditions Nos. ( ) (as may be varied under Special 
Condition No. (  ) hereof) and (  ) hereof are provided at 
or above ground level or the spaces provided in 
accordance with Special Condition No. (  ) hereof (as may 
be varied under Special Condition No. (  ) hereof) are 
provided above ground level, 50% of such spaces 
together with 50% of the other areas including but not 
limited to lift lobbies, landings, pedestrian access routes, 
manoeuvring and circulation areas and plant rooms 
serving such spaces shall be taken into account for the 
calculation of the total gross floor area stipulated in 
Special Condition No. ( )( ) hereof as to which the 
decision of the Director shall be final and binding on the 
Purchaser. 
 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding sub-clause (a)(ii) of this Special Condition, the 
Director at his sole discretion may subject to the payment by the Purchaser of 
any premium and administrative fee as shall be determined by the Director 
exclude any spaces and other areas referred to in sub-clause (a)(ii) of this 
Special Condition from the calculation of total gross floor area stipulated in 
Special Condition No. (  )(  ) hereof as to which the decision of the Director 
shall be final and binding on the Purchaser. 
 
 
(c) 
For the purpose of this Special Condition, the decision of the 
Director as to what constitutes ground level or whether any space is at, above 
or below ground level shall be final and binding on the Purchaser. 
 
 
OR 
 
 
Parking, loading 
and unloading 
spaces etc. excluded 
from gross floor 
area calculation 
 
 
(  ) 
(a) 
For the purpose of calculating the total gross floor area stipulated 
in Special Condition No. (  )(  ) hereof, 
 
(i) 
there shall not be taken into account- 
 
Appendix I 

----- page 9/13 -----
-  2  - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(I) 
the Residential Parking Spaces, the Visitors’ 
Parking Spaces, and the Parking Spaces for 
Disabled Persons and the Motor Cycle Parking 
Spaces (hereinafter collectively referred to as “the 
Spaces”), if they are provided below the ground 
level; 
 
(II) 
the Loading and Unloading Spaces if they are 
provided at or below the ground level; and 
 
(III)  the Bicycle Parking Spaces; and 
 
(IV) 
the Spaces provided in any one (but not more than 
one) floor at or above the ground level of any 
building erected or to be erected on the lot if there 
are at least two floors below the ground level of such 
building, which in the opinion of the Building 
Authority fully utilize the lot (as to which the 
opinion of the Building Authority shall be 
conclusive), and are provided for the purpose of 
parking, loading and unloading of motor vehicles, 
and the Spaces, for that reason, have been excluded 
by the Building Authority from the calculation of the 
gross floor area under the Buildings Ordinance. 
 
(ii) 
other than the spaces referred to in sub-clause (a)(i)(IV) of 
this Special Condition, if the Spaces are provided at or 
above the ground level or the Loading and Unloading 
Spaces are provided above the ground level, 50% of such 
spaces together with 50% of the other areas including but 
not limited to lift lobbies, landings, pedestrian access 
routes, manoeuvring and circulation areas and plant rooms 
serving such spaces shall be taken into account for the 
calculation of the total gross floor area stipulated in 
Special Condition No. (  )(  ) hereof as to which the 
decision of the Director shall be final and binding on the 
Purchaser. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding sub-clause (a)(ii) of this Special Condition, the 
Director at his sole discretion may subject to the payment by the Purchaser of 
any premium and administrative fee as shall be determined by the Director 
exclude any spaces and other areas referred to in sub-clause (a)(ii) of this 
Special Condition from the calculation of the total gross floor area stipulated in 
Special Condition No. (  )(  ) hereof as to which the decision of the Director 
shall be final and binding on the Purchaser. 
 
 
(c) 
For the purpose of this Special Condition, the decision of the 
Director as to what constitutes the ground level or whether any space is at, above 
or below the ground level and what constitute other areas serving those spaces 
as specified in sub-clause (a)(ii) of this Special Condition shall be final and 
binding on the Purchaser. 
 
 

----- page 10/13 -----
Appendix II 
 
… the Director at his sole discretion may: 
 
(  ) 
in calculating the gross floor area of any building or buildings erected or 
to be erected on the lot … exclude : 
 
… 
 
(   ) 
any structure or floor space other than that referred to in sub-
clauses ( )( )( ), ( )( )( ) and ( )( ) of this Special Condition, which 
has been excluded by the Building Authority from the calculation 
of gross floor area  under the Buildings Ordinance, any regulations 
made thereunder and any amending legislation provided that the 
Director at his sole discretion may require the payment by the 
Purchaser of an additional premium and administrative fee as shall 
be determined by the Director for any structure or any floor space 
excluded under this sub-clause… 
 
 
OR 
 
 
 
… the Director at his sole discretion may: 
 
(  ) 
in calculating the gross floor area of any building or buildings erected or 
to be erected on the lot … exclude: 
 
(   ) 
subject to the payment by the Purchaser of any premium and 
administrative fee as shall be determined by the Director: 
 
… 
 
(  ) 
any floor space or structure which has been excluded by the 
Building Authority from the calculation of gross floor area 
under the Buildings Ordinance, any regulations made 
thereunder and any amending legislation… 
 
 

----- page 11/13 -----
Standard Rate for Calculation of Premium for 
Exemption of Aboveground Private Parking Spaces
from Gross Floor Area (GFA) Calculation under Lease
 The rate stated below is only applicable to the exemption of private parking 
spaces at or above ground level and the ancillary areas serving such parking spaces in 
private developments which have been disregarded from GFA calculation by the 
Building Authority (“BA”) under the GFA Exemption Arrangement as detailed in 
paragraph 2(f)(ii) of the PN. 
Standard Rate (1)
$ 8,900/m2
 
(1) 
The rate refers to the unit rate per square metre of the Specified Exempted GFA (as defined in 
paragraph 2(b)(iv) of Practice Note No. 9/2025 (“the PN”)), which shall be calculated on the basis 
of the GFA accountability of the Aboveground Parking Spaces and the ancillary areas serving such 
parking spaces under lease as per footnotes 4 and 5 of the PN. The premium to be charged is the 
rate as abovementioned multiplied by the Specified Exempted GFA. The Specified Exempted GFA 
will be rounded up to the nearest 0.1m2 when calculating the premium payable. The standard rate 
is applicable for approval / consent involving GFA exemption for private parking spaces and 
ancillary areas at or above ground level under the GFA Exemption Arrangement which private 
parking spaces and ancillary areas without such approval / consent are required to be provided below 
ground level for full GFA exemption under existing lease. The premium payable will be determined 
by the Lands Department at its absolute discretion and is non-negotiable.  For the avoidance of 
doubt, the standard rate is not applicable to applications involving GFA exemption for public 
parking spaces or a mix of both public parking spaces and private parking spaces under the GFA 
Exemption Arrangement.
Appendix III

----- page 12/13 -----
 
 
Appendix IV 
 
Checklist for Submission of an Application for Lease Modification /  
Approval / Consent Letter for Exemption of Aboveground Parking Spaces 
from Gross Floor Area (GFA) Calculation 
 
A. Information/Documents that must be submitted for all applications (1) 
 
(i) 
A copy of a computer printout containing the current ownership particulars 
of the Property (2). 
 
(ii) 
If submitted by an agent, a written authorisation from the principal who 
should be the registered owner of the Property. 
 
(iii) If submitted by an individual applicant, a written confirmation that he has 
read and understood the Note on Use of Personal Information Required in 
the Application at the end of this Appendix and that he consents to 
disclosure of his personal data to other Government bureaux or 
departments for the purpose of considering and processing his application.  
 
B. Information/Documents that must be submitted for application for approval/consent letter (1) 
 
(i) 
A copy of general building plans (“GBPs”) approved by the Building 
Authority (“BA”) delineating the parking spaces at or above ground level 
(“Aboveground Parking Spaces”) or the Aboveground Parking Spaces in 
the Additional Floors (3) (as the case may be) and ancillary areas serving 
such parking spaces which have been disregarded from GFA calculation 
by the BA under the GFA Exemption Arrangement referred to in the Lands 
Department (“LandsD”) Lands Administration Office Practice Note No. 
9/2025 but are GFA accountable (either in full or 50%) under lease. 
 
(ii) 
GFA calculations certified by an Authorised Person engaged by the 
registered owners of the Property for the Aboveground Parking Spaces or 
the Aboveground Parking Spaces in the Additional Floors (as the case may 
be), prepared on the basis of their GFA accountability under lease.  A copy 
of the GFA calculations should be copied to the Building Plan Unit (BPU) 
of the Development Control Section of LandsD for agreement. 
 
C. Information/Documents that must be submitted for application for lease 
modification (1) 
 
(i) 
A detailed application letter clearly identifying the Property, the variations 
being sought in respect of any terms and conditions of the existing lease 
conditions. 
 
(ii) 
A copy of an up-to-date location/site plan on an appropriate scale 
(normally 1:1000) showing the Property. 
 
 
 Notes: 
(1) 
Please put a tick in the relevant box if applicable. 
(2) 
Property includes all lots involved in an application. 
(3)  See paragraph 2(a)(i)(II) of Lands Administration Office Practice Note No. 9/2025 for definition of 
“Additional Floors”. 
 
 
口
口
口
二
二
二
口

----- page 13/13 -----
Note on Use of Personal Information Required in the Application 
Purpose of Collection 
The personal data provided in application pursuant to this 
Practice Note and Appendix I9 will be used by the Lands 
Department for the purpose of considering and processing the 
application.  The provision of the personal data is obligatory.  If 
you do not provide the personal data, the Lands Department 
may not be able to process your application. 
Class of Transferees 
The personal data you provided may be disclosed to other 
Government bureaux/departments for the purpose mentioned 
above. 
Access to Personal Data 
The individual who is the subject of the personal data has a right 
of access and correction with respect to personal data as provided 
for in Sections 18 and 22 and Principle 6 of Schedule I of the 
Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486). Such right of 
access includes the right to obtain a copy of the personal data 
provided upon payment of the applicable charge. 
Enquiries 
Enquiries concerning the personal data collected, including the 
request for access and corrections, should be addressed to: 
Departmental Personal Data Controlling 
Officer of the Lands Department 
20/F., North Point Government Offices 
333 Java Road, North Point 
Hong Kong 
