
----- page 1/3 -----
2 
4 
Lands Administration Office 
Lands Department 
Practice Note 
Installation and Operation of Smart Lockers 
in Private Residential Developments 
Issue No. 9/2023 
With the increasing popularity of online shopping, the use of self-service tools for 
deposit and picking up of goods C'smai1 lockers") has become popular in Hong Kong over 
the past years. Sma11 lockers are usually installed in shopping malls to facilitate the picking 
up by customers after online purchases. However, for a development subject to a residential 
user restriction I under lease2 ("residential development"), installation and operation of smart 
lockers in the development accessible to and for use by the general public, rather than solely 
used by residents of the development, would constitute a breach of the user restriction. 
2. 
To balance the need of the community and the lease requirements, the Lands 
Department has decided not to enforce the user restriction against installation and operation 
of smart lockers in the common areas3 of a residential development which may be used by 
the general public, on condition that the following criteria are all met to the satisfaction of the 
Director of Lands ("the Director"):-
(a) The aggregate floor area occupied by the smart lockers shall not exceed the 
sum of floor area calculated at a ratio of 3 square metres per residential block4 
in the residential development. 
(b) The smart lockers shall not exceed a height of 2. 7 5 metres. 
The residential user restriction includes restriction of"private residential purposes", "residential purposes", 
"residence(s)", "as a dwelling house" and "as a messuage or dwelling house" ("the user restriction"). 
All references to "lease" in this Practice Note ("PN") shall include Government Lease or Conditions of Sale 
I Grant! Exchange, etc. as the case may be. 
Common areas are generally under the management and control of the Incorporated Owners or the property 
manager of a development and are designated as such in the Deed of MutuaJ Covenant ("DMC") of the 
development. In determining whether an area is common area for the purpose of this PN, the decision of 
the Director of Lands shall be final. 
For the purpose of this PN, the decision of the Director as to what constitutes a residential block shall be 
final. 

----- page 2/3 -----
2 
(c) No smart locker shall be installed in the common areas of the residential 
development designated for public passage or in means of escape and 
emergency escape routes or exits, and installation of smart lockers in the 
common areas of the residential development shall not contravene any other 
lease conditions. 
( d) No advertising sign, bill, placard or notice shall be displayed on the smart 
lockers except for displaying the name and contact information of the relevant 
smart locker provider and other info1mation that is essential for the operation 
of the smart lockers. 
(e) The smaii lockers shall be securely attached to the floor o~ the wall. 
3. 
For the avoidance of doubt, there is no restriction on the number of smart lockers 
installed at any one residential block as long as the total sum of floor area in the residential 
development occupied by the smart lockers does not exceed the aggregate floor area per 
residential block of the development calculated at the ratio in paragraph 2(a) above (as to 
which the decision of the Director shall be final). 
4. 
Incorporated Owners/ Owners' Corporation or property manager of the residential 
development should ensure that the provision of the smart lockers complies with the above 
criteria and other conditions in the lease as well as the DMC governing the residential 
development. 
5. 
The Government shall have no liability in respect of any loss or damage whatsoever 
caused to any owner or resident of the residential development or any other person arising 
out of the installation and operation of the smart lockers within the scope of this PN or 
otherwise and no claim for such loss or damage shall be made against the Government or the 
Director. 
6. 
Nothing in this PN shall in any way fetter or affect or prejudice the exercise of the 
rights of the Government, the Director and their officers under the relevant lease or the 
Government's rights as lessor or landlord. All such rights are hereby reserved and nothing in 
this PN, including any words and expressions used, shall in any way be construed as any 
variation or waiver of any provisions under the relevant lease or affect, prejudice or bind the 
Government in relation to the interpretation or enforcement of the terms and conditions of the 
relevant lease. 
7. 
Moreover, this PN shall not affect other tenns, covenants and conditions in the 
lease, the Buildings Ordinance, the Town Planning Ordinance and other legislations or 
otherwise, and shall not prejudice any rights and remedies of any parties under the DMC of 

----- page 3/3 -----
3 
the development (if applicable). 
8. 
This PN is issued for general reference purposes only. All rights to modify the 
whole or any part of this PN are hereby reserved. 
( Andrew LAI ) 
Director of Lands 
8 December 2023 
