消防處  
消 防 安 全 總 區 
香港九龍尖沙咀東部康莊道一號 
消防總部大厦七樓  
 
  
 
FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
FIRE SAFETY COMMAND 
7/F, Fire Services Headquarters Building, 
No. 1 Hong Chong Road, Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon. 
Hong Kong                   
 
Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
凡 提 及 本 信 時 請 引 述 編 號 及 日 期 
1/2 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2008   
本處檔號 OUR REF. (21) in FP(FS) 314/07 II  
來函檔號 YOUR REF.: 
圖文傳真 FAX NO.: 852-2312 0376 
電    話 TEL NO.: 852-2170 9595 
 
  31 March 2008 
 
To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters 
 
 
Dear Sirs/Madams,  
 
 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2008 
Fire Protection Measures in Construction Sites 
 
   
 As more and more skyscrapers are continuing to be built in Hong Kong, the 
current requirements for fire protection me asures in construction sites have been 
reviewed.  After lengthy consultations wi th the trade and concerned professional 
bodies, revised requirements have been  devised.  The new requirements are 
considered necessary for facilitating Fire Services Department to deal with fires 
occurring in high-rise buildings, in particular, the skyscrapers under construction for 
the purpose of enhancing protection to life and property. 
 
 For buildings under construction, wate r relaying facilities for fire fighting 
shall be provided.  These facilitie s can be arranged as follows : 
 
(a) For buildings with designed height between 30 m and 80 m or 
below : 
z Provision of a closed circuit t ype water relaying system for 
buildings under construction in accordance with the guidelines set 
out at Annex I; or 
 
z Installation of electrical fire pum p(s) or placing of portable fire 
pump(s)  on floors to be determ ined by practical tests conducted 
jointly by the building contractor s and FSD Officers.  The number 
and capacity of the pump(s) will be  at the discretion of the former 
provided that the pump(s) is/are  fitted with standard 65 mm 
instantaneous coupling inlets/outle ts and capable of delivering 900 
litres/minute.  The general guide lines at Annex I should be 
observed where applicable. 
 
Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
凡 提 及 本 信 時 請 引 述 編 號 及 日 期 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2008 2/2 
 
Notwithstanding the above, the industry is recommended to adopt, as far 
as practicable, the closed circuit type water relaying system as stipulated 
above for better fire protection. 
 
(b) For buildings with designed height over 80 m : 
z Provision of a closed circuit t ype water relaying system for 
buildings under construction in acco rdance with the guidelines at 
Annex I.  The water relaying fac ilities shall be provided for each 
building block in the construction s ite when it reaches the height of 
30 m above ground/street level. 
 
 (c) For both types of buildings as mentioned above : 
z Temporary commissioning of the fire hydrant system required 
under section 16(1)(b)(ii) of the Buildings Ordinance, and/or 
extended as the construction of the building progresses. 
  
 To ensure building contractors are aware of the above requirements, FSD 
Officers will visit construction sites to give suitable advice under section 7(c) of the 
Fire Services Ordinance and confirm this in writing to the responsible person. 
 
 After a reasonable period of time, FSD Officers will make further visits to 
conduct practical tests and to ensure these facilities being functioning properly.   
 
 Should there be any defects, temporar y shut-down or changes on the facilities 
noted, it is advised that the local fire station should be informed and suitable 
alternative measures should be made without delay, failing which, Fire Hazard 
Abatement Notices may be served to the bui lding contractor/responsible person of the 
construction site concerned.  The Fire Hazard Abatement Notices served under 
section 9 of the Fire Services (Fire Hazard Abatement) Regulation are enforceable by 
law and offenders are liable to be prosecuted. 
 
 The new requirements and gu idelines will take effect from 1 July 2 008 for all 
initial building plan submissions received by this Department.  The requirements as 
stipulated in paragraph 7, Pa rt X of FSD Circular Letter No . 4/96 remain applicable to 
those building projects received before this Circular Letter being in force. 
 
   
Yours faithfully, 
 
(LAW Hung) 
for Director of Fire Services 
 
Encl. 
Annex I  
 
Guidelines for Fire Protection Measures in Construction Sites 
 
1.  For construction sites with designed building height over 80 m, closed circuit 
water relaying facilities with  fixed wet/dry riser(s) and fire pump(s) to facilitate 
firefighting operation should be provided for each building block in the construction 
sites when it reaches the height of 30 m above ground/street le vel.  These facilities 
shall be arranged in a Closed Circuit Type System as per schematic diagram shown at 
Appendix A (I) and (II). 
 
2.  When closed circuit water relayi ng facilities are to be employed, the 
following guidelines should be observed:- 
 
(a) The facilities shall be capable of relaying water with a minimum flow of 900 
litres/minute at a running pressure of not less than 350 kPa but not more than 
850 kPa.  For both the pump set(s) and the riser, the inlets /outlets shall be 
fitted with 65mm instantaneous coupli ngs conforming to BS 336.  The 
inlet/outlet shall be individually c ontrolled by wheel-operated screw valve 
designed to open by anti-clockwise rota tion.  The direction of opening of 
the valve shall be clearly engraved in both English and Chinese on the wheel.  
The hydrant outlet shall be fixed not less than 800 mm or more than 1200 
mm above floor level. 
 
(b) Standard F.S. inlet shall be provi ded for each buildi ng block on ground 
/street level and be easily accessible by  fire fighting personnel.  Suitable 
signage – ‘Site F.S. Inlet’ and ‘ 工地消防入水掣’, lettering of which (both 
English and Chinese) of at least 50 mm  high, indicating the inlets shall be 
displayed at a prominent position at the Fire Services access point on ground 
/street level.  The F.S. inlet sha ll be enclosed and protected against 
corrosion and damage.  It shall be  fitted with a non-return valve. 
 
(c) The fixed riser, either permanent or temporary, should be located at or 
adjacent to the designated access staircase.  They shall be of minimum 80 
mm diameter in size and installed with automatic air relief valve(s) wherever 
applicable.  In case two or more risers  for this purpose are provided in the 
same building, they shall be inter- connected.  Where fi xed fire pump(s) 
is/are interposed between the F.S. inlet and the hydrant outlets, provision 
should be made for the water supplied to the Inle t to by-pass this/these 
pump(s) in the event of failure of the pump(s). 
 
(d) As far as practicable, the topmost fire hydrant outlets should be situated at no 
more than 7 storeys or 30 m below the topmost floor under construction, 
whichever the nearest. 
 
(e) Fire hydrant outlets shall be provided  on every stabilized floor except the 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2008 1/8
ground/street level.  Suitable signage showing “Site FH” and “ 工地消防栓”, 
lettering of which (both E nglish and Chinese) of at  least 50 mm high, shall 
be fixed adjacent to each of the hydrant outlets of the temporary system in 
order to distinguish the permanent system not yet in commission, if any. 
 
(f) Suitable hydrant inlet(s) fo r portable fire pump(s) with non-return valve(s) 
and control valve(s) for releasing pressu re shall be provided to the riser on 
the levels where fire pump(s) are provided. 
 
(g) If flexible fire hoses are used for co nnecting the portable fire pump to the 
riser, a minimum of four short lengths  of 70 mm detachable flexible fire 
hoses (preferably of 6 m in length) sha ll be provided.  They shall be placed 
adjacent to the pump and suitably housed  to avoid unnece ssary damage or 
vandalism.  These housings shall be suitably annotated w ith both English 
and Chinese showing ‘Fire Hoses (Emergency Use)’ and ‘ 消防喉(緊急用
途)’. 
 
(h) Fixed/Portable fire pump(s) shall be provided to relay water for all floors 
when construction being ca rried out above 30 m and at intervals at the 
discretion of the building contractor s provided the performance of the 
pump(s) are satisfied with the criteria as at (a) above. 
 
(i) The pump set(s) shall be located clos e to the designated access staircase 
provided with water relay facilities and shall not cause any obstruction to the 
ingress or egress of the staircase. 
 
(j) For electrical fire pump(s), each of th em shall be connected to the main 
electricity supply from the construction site.   
 
(k) All electrical fire pump(s) can be controlled individually at  the main control 
panel on ground floor as well as at local control point, with protection device 
to avoid pump running under no flow situation.  Local control panel with 
control switch and indication of operati on status for each fire pump shall be 
provided at its nearby vicinity.  For fixed electrical fire pump(s), start/stop 
buttons of the pump(s) to be provided at the Site F.S. Inlet on ground/street 
level. 
 
(l) The electricity supply shall have enough capacity to cater for the 
simultaneous operation of all electrical  fire pump(s) installed/provided for 
the building under construction. 
 
(m) Fire-resistant type power cables for the facilities are high ly recommended.  
The power cables shall be properly fixe d on wall.  Each fire pump shall be 
provided with duplicated power cables separately routed to avoid complete 
power failure resulted fro m mechanical damage.  The duplicated power 
cables shall comprise a cable connected from electric al mains and the other 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2008 2/8
teed off before the main switch.  Prov ision of a changeover switch of power 
supply to secondary power at the inco ming main switch shall be located at 
the ground/street level.  The power supply shall be automatically switched 
to the secondary power if the normal pow er fails for whatever reason.  All 
electric work shall be undertaken by  Registered Electric Worker of 
appropriate grade.   
 
(n) All fire pump(s) and wiring for the fac ilities shall be properly insulated, 
fitted and protected.  Relevant Re gulations under the Factories and 
Industrial Undertakings Ordinance, Cap. 59 and Fire Protection Notice No. 
13 for construction sites safety should be observed. 
 
(o) In case that a diesel pump is employed for the purpose, a fuel tank of 
adequate capacity shall be provided fo r continuous running of the pump for 
not less than one hour.  The location for the pump shall have good 
ventilation.  Relevant requirements and Dangerous Good s Ordinance shall 
be observed for any fuel storage. 
 
(p) To avoid air lock problem, automatic air relief valves shall be provided at 
intervals where fire pump(s) is/are employed. 
 
(q) To avoid the running pressure in excess of 850 kPa, parity valves shall be 
provided where applicable. 
 
(r) Directional signs showing the access to the fire pump(s) shall be displayed at 
a prominent position immediate outside th e entrance level of the staircase(s) 
and at suitable intervals. 
 
(s) Floor levels and access staircases shall be clearly number ed at prominent 
positions. 
 
(t) Adequate lighting shall be provided at the location of the riser, hydrant inlets 
and outlets, fire pump(s) and control panel as well as the designated access 
staircase. 
 
(u) A plan of minimum A1 size, in bot h Chinese and English, showing the 
location(s) of the fire pump(s) and pump control panel shall be provided.  
Besides, a block plan showing the gene ral layout of all building blocks and 
the access route shall also be  provided.  Both plans shall be provided at a 
prominent position at the entrance of th e construction site or the site office 
and to the local fire station for information. 
 
(v) The temporary water relaying facilities in  construction site shall be under 
periodical checking and proper maintenan ce to ensure that the system is in 
good working order at all times.  The name and phone number of the 
responsible person(s) supe rvising the provision of water relaying facilities 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2008 3/8
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2008 4/8
shall be provided at the construction site entrance. 
 
(w) Schematic diagrams showing the typica l arrangements of electricity supply 
are shown at Appendix B and C. 
 
 
- End - 
 
Ground/ 
street
level
Topmost outlet
situated not more than
7 floors or 30 m below 
the topmost floor under 
construction, whichever 
the nearest
F.S. 
Pumping
appliance
Street
fire hydrant
Not less than 
80 mm
dry riser
AAV
AAV
AAV
AAV
F.S. Inlet
(BS 336)
Hydrant Outlet
(BS 336)
Portable intermediate
pump
AAV
Automatic
Air Relief Valve
70mm detachable 
flexible hose(s) or
Fixed piping
(provided by 
building contractor)
Closed Circuit Water Relay Arrangement using Portable Fire Pump(s)
for High-rise Building Under Construction Appendix A(I)
5/8FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2008
Ground/ 
street 
level
Topmost outlet
situated not more than 
7 floors or 30 m below 
the topmost floor under 
construction, whichever 
the nearest
F.S. 
Pumping
appliance
Street
fire hydrant
Not less than 
80 mm 
dry riser
AAV
F.S. Inlet
(BS 336)
Hydrant Outlet
BS 336)
Fixed Fire
Pump with by-pass
(Location may vary
depending on
design)
Automatic
Air Relief
valve
AAV
Closed Circuit Water Relay Arrangement using Fixed Fire Pump(s) 
for High-rise Building Under Construction Appendix A (II)
6/8FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2008
 
 
Appendix B 
Schematic Diagram of the Electricity Supply 
for Fixed Fire Pumps (Single Tower) 
FIXED 
FIRE PUMP
FOR UPPER ZONE
AUTO
c/o SW
FIXED 
FIRE PUMP
FOR LOWER ZONE
Power cable in 
separate routing 
or  metal
conduit/trunking
POWER 
Meter
From Power
Company
Legend: 
SW   switch
SW/F  switchfuse
AUTO
c/o SW
Non-essential
Switch Board
Essential
Switch Board
SW/F SW/F SW/F SW/F
SW/F SW/F
SW
SW
 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2008 7/8
 
 
Appendix C 
Schematic Diagram of the Electricity Supply 
for Fixed Fire Pumps (Multiple Towers) 
FIXED 
FIRE PUMP
FIXED 
FIRE PUMP
AUTO
c/o SW
AUTO
c/o SW
Power 
cable in 
separate 
routing 
or  metal
conduit/
trunking
POWER 
Meter
From Power
Company
Legend: 
SW     switch
SW/F  switchfuse
Power Cable in 
Switch board
TOWER 1 TOWER 2
G/F
SW SW SW SW
SW SW
SW/F SW/F
SW/F SW/F SW/F SW/F
SW/F SW/F
Sub-main 
Distribution Board
Sub-main 
Distribution Board
Non-essential
Switch board
Essential
Switch board
 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2008 8/8