FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT

LICENSING & CERTIFICATION COMMAND
5/F, Fire Services Headquarters Buiiding,
No. | Hong Chong Road, Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon,
Hong Kong

7
eR Re Sit @ E
He SL) OG OA me aE —

ARAM AM

ASBRIESE OUR REEF: (10) in FP(LC) 314/07 Pt. 7

2K Ra RES YOUR REF:
StH FAX NO.: 852-2723 2197
# #$3£ TELNO.: 852-2733 7612

BFE E-mail: Icpolic@hkfsd.gov.hk
30 October 2014

To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters
and Members of the VILG

Dear Sirs/Madams,
FSD Circular Letter No. 1/2014

Use of Pre-insulated Panels for the Construction

of Air Ducts in Mechanical Ventilating Systems

The Building (Ventilating Systems) Regulations, Cap 123J, Laws of Hong
Kong, require that every air duct shall be wholly constructed of non-combustible
material with a strength and durability not less than that of galvanized sheet-iron or
steel.

With the advent in technology, there are pre-insulated panels specifically
designed for the construction of air ducts in mechanical ventilating / air-conditioning .
systems. Having regard to the performance under fire condition and strength of the
available pre-insulated panels in the market, the Ventilation Installation Liaison Group
proposed that pre-insulated panels satisfying the fire safety requirements stipulated in
the Appendix to this Letter can be used as an alternative material for air duct
construction in mechanical ventilating systems under the Building (Ventilating
Systems) Regulations, Cap 123J. This new arrangement will take immediate effect
for an initial trial period of two years, after which a review will be conducted to assess
the suitability for long term adoption.

/2...

Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter
AHR A fe Sl aR

FSD Circular Letter No. 1/2014

To allow practitioners in the mechanical ventilation industry to acquaint
themselves with the techniques and build up practical experience in using such panels
for the construction of air duct systems, its application is initially limited to within a
single fire compartment and restrictions on use as depicted in the Appendix shall be
observed.

For the avoidance of doubt, galvanized sheet-iron or steel remains an
acceptable material for the construction of air ducts. This Circular Letter is not
applicable to any ventilating system in scheduled premises under the Ventilation of
Scheduled Premises Regulation, Cap 132CE.

Yours faithfully,

‘(Robert LAU )
for Director of Fire Services

Encl.

Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this fetter
MRRAGH AS MARR A

FSD Circular Letter No. 1/2014

Appendix

Pre-insulated Panels Used for the Construction of Air Ducts

in Mechanical Ventilating Systems under the
the Building (Ventilating Systems) Regulations, Cap 123J

General

1.1

1.2

The pre-insulated panels, which shall be specifically designed for the fabrication
of air ducts, shall be manufactured by reputable manufacturers with not less than
three years of experience in the production of such materials. The manufacturer
shall also be able to supply a complete range of tools and accessories including
duct jointing system, stiffening rod system, duct supports and consumables etc.,
which are necessary for the construction of air ducts that can perform adequately
in the conveyance of air.

Construction of air ducts shall follow the methods and procedures recommended
by respective panel manufacturers using the appropriate tools, accessories and
consumables.

Performance Standard

2.1

2.2

The pre-insulated panels shall comprise a rigid insulation foam (polyurethane,
polyisocyanurate or phenolic) board with aluminium/stainless steel foils
permanently bonded on both sides. The panel shall comply with the following
standards or other international standards acceptable to the Fire Services
Department:

(a) BS 476: Part 6 (Fire Propagation Test) with indices of performance IS 12
and 11 $6
and

(b) BS 476: Part 7 (Surface Spread of Flame Test), Class 1

The minimum stiffness in terms of flexural rigidity of these pre-insulated panels
shall be Class R3 when tested to BS EN 13403.

Application

The use of pre-insulated panels for the construction of air ducts shall conform to the
following conditions:

3.1

If the floor area of the fire compartment is greater than 230 m’, the use of pre-
insulated panels for air ducts shall not be permitted without sprinkler protection.

/2...

3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

-2-

The use of pre-insulated panels for air ducts shall not be permitted in protected
areas, fireman’s lift lobby, plant rooms, dangerous goods stores and rooms with
high temperature activities, e.g. boiler room.

Such air ducts shall not be used for the conveyance of toxic or corrosive gases or
grease/air mixtures e.g. fume cupboard and exhaust hood for cooking activities.

The air duct shall not have a cross sectional area greater than 0.35 m’. The
whole air duct, including its supports, and the fan or fan coil unit to which the
duct is connected shall be located within the same fire compartment, i.e. the duct
shall not pass through any fire resisting walls, floors, ceilings and partitions.

In air-conditioning installation, the use of pre-insulated panels shall be limited to
the fabrication of final air distribution ducts (i.e. ducts with air diffusers/grilles
directly attached) connected directly to fan coil units having a maximum air
volume flow rate of 1,000 litres/second and installed within a single fire
compartment. However, to facilitate inspection and maintenance, duct offering
direct access to the blower of fan coil unit can have a cross sectional area of not

greater than 0.7 m’, provided that no part of the duct can be used as a support for
the inspection / maintenance personnel.

In any case, the aspect ratio of air ducts shall be such that the entrance of a person
is not possible except for the circumstance stated in clause 3.5 above.

- End -