FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT

oH MG Be
. FIRE SAFETY COMMAND
yh SS A Fire Services Headquarters Building
BAST ARE PAE HE 7IF, North Wing
No. 1 Hong Chong Road,
APA CIE Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon,
Hong Kong
AAS Our Ref.: (18) in FP(FS) 314/07 IV
Ae YourRef.: = -
(3c(4¥L Fax No.: (852) 2312 0376
@ = Tel. No.: (852) 2170 9595
FEE E-mail: fschq@hkfsd.gov.hk
6 September 2016

To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters

Dear Sirs/Madams,

FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2016
Improvised Hose Reel System
in Connection with the Enforcement of

the Fire Safety (Buildings) Ordinance (Cap. 572), Laws of Hong Kong

This Circular Letter serves to announce the acceptance of improvised hose reel system
with direct water supply from the Government Mains [here-in-after as ‘improvised hose reel
system (direct-feed type)’]. This Circular Letter should be read in conjunction with FSD
Circular Letter No. 3/2007.

In accordance with Fire Safety (Buildings) Ordinance (Cap. 572) (here-in-after as ‘the
Ordinance’), owners of composite buildings (here-in-after as ‘target composite buildings’) are
required to comply with the requirement in the Fire Safety Direction(s) issued by the Fire
Services Department (FSD) by providing fire service installations or equipment (FSI). Owing
to spatial/structural constraints, some building owners may encounter difficulties in complying
with the requirement, inter alia, the installation of water tank for the hose reel system.

For the purpose of facilitating building owners to upgrade the fire safety standard of
their buildings, the FSD hitherto has been adopting flexible and pragmatic approaches on
imposing fire safety requirements. In this regard, FSD and Water Supplies Department (WSD)
have carried out a pilot scheme on adopting improvised hose reel system (direct-feed type) for
non-domestic portion of the target composite buildings of 3 storeys or below regulated under
the Ordinance. In the design of the aforesaid system, the installations of water tank and fixed
fire pumps are not required.

Following the successful trial in July this year, FSD will accept improvised hose reel
system (direct-feed type) to be installed at non-domestic portion of target composite buildings
of 3 storeys or below regulated under the Ordinance as an alternative of the conventional hose
reel system (i.e. the hose reel system with the installation of a supply tank and fixed fire pumps).
The authorised consultants and Registered Fire Service Installation Contractors (here-in-after
as ‘RFSIC’) can propose using improvised hose reel system (direct-feed type) for the mentioned
non-domestic portion.

wef P2

Reference Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter

Aude BAS Sip ar 5 | Sait Be ABA

Encl.

ote

The design and specifications of improvised hose reel system (direct-feed type) are
illustrated in Appendix A. Particular attention is drawn to the followings:

General Design

Apart from the specifications as stipulated in the ‘Code of Practice for Minimum
Fire Service Installations and Equipment (1994 version)’ which shall be
complied with (except the requirements of the installations of water tank and
fixed fire pumps), the installations of a backflow preventer and a flow switch
with alarm bell/sounder in the mentioned system are also required.

Backflow Preventer

e

The backflow preventer is a water supply fitting which must be approved by the
Water Authority prior to the construction of the improvised hose reel system
(direct-feed type).

The installation, maintenance, repair or inspection of the backflow preventer in
the improvised hose reel system (direct-feed type) shall conform to WSD’s
requirements.

Additionally, the testing and inspection of the backflow preventer shall be carried
out in accordance with manufacturer’s recommended procedure at the acceptance
inspection and annual inspection.

FSI drawing submission

The following shall be included in the submission of FSI drawing: -

- the specification of the backflow preventer which may be provided in the form
of product catalogue; and

- the hydraulic calculation for the improvised hose reel system (direct-feed

type).

The owner(s) of the FSI is(are) required to keep such FSI in efficient working order
at all times and have such FSI inspected by a RFSIC at least once in every 12 months. The
requirements for inspection and maintenance of improvised hose reel system (direct-feed type)
are similar to the conventional hose reel system. Nonetheless, relevant information regarding
the inspection and work done for the improvised hose reel system (direct-feed type) shall be
provided at Part 1, Part 2 and Part 3 of the Certificate of Fire Service Installation and Equipment
(FS 251) where appropriate. Examples are shown at Appendix B.

Should you need further clarification on this matter, please do not hesitate to contact
officers of the Building Improvement Division 1 or 2 at 2807 9126 or 2272 9112 respectively.

for Director of Fire Services

Reference Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter

Sue Beas (Sie ae 5 | alt asic Be A BA

hi

Appendix A

Design and specifications of improvised hose reel system (direct-feed_type) to be
installed at non-domestic portion of target composite buildings of 3 storeys or below
regulated under the Fire Safety (Buildings) Ordinance (Cap. 572)

Specifications as stipulated in respective section in Paragraphs 5.11 and 5.14 of the ‘Code
of Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment (1994 Version)’ should

be conformed to with the following modifications:

(a) Supply tank is not required; and

(b) Fixed fire pumps are not required

Secondary source of electricity supply shall be provided for the system.

The gate valve of the water supply shall be properly secured and locked in an open position

at all times to prevent unauthorized tampering.

A backflow preventer complying with BS EN 12729:2002 - ‘Devices to prevent pollution
by backflow of potable water- Controllable backflow preventer with reduced pressure zone
- Family B-Type A’ or its latest revised edition/replacement; or other standard/certification
accepted by the Water Authority shall be fitted as per Schematic Piping Diagram in this
Appendix to prevent contamination of the Government fresh water supply system. The
backflow preventer shall be approved by the Water Authority prior to construction of the

improvised hose reel system (direct-feed type).

. A flow switch shall be fitted to the system. In case a flow is detected through the flow

switch, a visual indication shall be shown on the fire alarm panel and the alarm bell/sounder
should be actuated. The flow signal as indicated on the fire alarm panel shall be independent

from the fire alarm signal actuated by manual fire alarm call point(s).

rol
hy

srereeee

~~ Schematic Piping Diagram For Improvised Hose Reel System (Direct-feed type)

Legend

:
=
B
DI
DX
©
©
aN
bi

Manual! fire alarm

Pressure gauge

(2)

* Fire alarm bell/sounder shall

call point
2/F
Hose reel
Backfiow
preventer
aN 1/F
Fire alarm bell/sounder [}
{
' Lot boundary i
Check valve ; Meter box i =
| ! D
Gate valve ian : =
Flow switch .
' i
t
'
'
'
ay

Check meter

Government mains Dischargeto sewer
Automatic

air vent

*Valve fittings and
assodated pipework

Backflow preventer complying with BS EN
12729 : 2002- Family B — Type A or its
latest revised edition/ replacement; or
other standard/certification accepted by
the Water Authority

Strainer shall be exposed or
laid in a proper

service trench

be activated by actuation of
the flow switch / manual fire
alarm call point

Options for Secondary Source of Electricity Supply:

1. Fed from Power Company’s cut-out; or

2. Provided by batteries to maintain a fire alarm
system in operation for 72 hours and operate all fire
alarm devices for at least 30 minutes.

Example of
entries for the
case of Annual
Inspection
ONLY

Example of
entries for the
case of
Installation/
Modification/
Repair/
Inspection
work

Example of
entries for the
case of
Defects

EXAMPLE

Appendix B

FIRE SERVICE (INSTALLATIONS AND EQUIPMENT] REGULATIONS

iO 5 ere a a

Ai (RRR) RP

A 0000000

Ape hae 8 (Regulation 900)
, : (he (1) RD
CERTIFICATE OF FIRE SERVICE [INSTALLATION AND EQUIPMENT
Hee REA
Name of Gient : : eo 3 pa eeeacoet sits
a eae a eee areca i ee
Name of Quiding : [ Se | |
{Et Fi as a
Street NovTown Let. | oe ~~) sueeurosttast Name: | acai |
Pa A REST et fae-e.5 BAS { ———
Block : : | Distict: [ Ares : | me
BL a ean diva Clie Oe Clete

‘Type of Building oe [ Jrgustnes | [Coreeraatt®  [_lOsrreetett

Purt 1 Annuul Inspection ONLY

SPAR PU TAPS EE te oR

{ Conform to FSD’s
requirements

Comment oa Condition ROE

Improvised Hose
Reel System (Direct-
feed type) (including
the backflow
preventer)

C] Composites tr ee ——

fey aewcloner wrth Repwinties OH of Fue Sevens Teeter Soee sed Loepres) Pegtetem, tht ower of wg [er servic untal inde or
fq aprerd ehh 6 eeu bed a ae pens thal bece pe) De Wrewg aes oe op awett wipeint bey
eur nore mate BRAM TERNS TR bata lll aaa Ma RR ROME
RIM KU PMO ALD RAR EK

fepidstnd Oe TN AT eed

Cuvpkties Dale
JL Win

DD/MM/YYYY | DD/MM/YYYY

Pact 2 98-48 tnstallation # Modification ? Repair # Inspection work SE50/ oe EE ae fe TLE

Type of PSE SE FETA | Locations) 0 At | Narere af Work Carrial out te TAA | Comment ne Conctien reared Pp

Installation/ Modification/
Repair/Inspection of
Improvised Hose Reel
System (Direct-feed type)

Improvised Hose
Reel System (Direct-
feed type)

Part 3 =A Nevers AEM NT

Compbeaion Late

ome

Conform to FSD’s
requirements

DD/MM/YYY¥

Type of Pst WERE MES Oucuaeding Defects {aR EA Cornea on Defects AUST EE

Improvised Hose
Reel System (Direct-
feed type)

Periodic testing of backflow
preventer in accordance
with manufacturer’s
recommended procedure is
outstanding

UM beveby coxtify that the above ieatalbdions oy eipenes) leave boon betel sev foere! te be in Teer Audhoezed
working onder in axcerdence wit the Codes of Practice for Miniraum Fire Seraae lestalaoors end Signeawe :
Eqprpeers and [nepection, Tectey aad Maintenance botd ste und Fxsiprsont pabtahed frees trae ZaARE
tocdine by the Dirscir of Fine Services. Detects are aod in Pet Name 3

RAMAEZSALLNRREARARUR: BHMKERG: FH
SHELA THSEHERRRAMSRRARH TURE FSoVA
LARKCREMURELP MAE  HRERKHH SH

MREFRSRER: BEMRAR eae st i
RAP RRR RRA hanes

Ths tard iew should ba Wapkiyed it proinatiecabor cl the suiding or pein eae TE

te F537 ragectece € nny weal naiderance wort  hreotyed pi

FS 25 tRee Le OWE

EXAMPLE

ita AR |

Periodic testing of backflow
preventer in accordance with
manufacturer’s recommended
procedure is required

Fer FSD
we cally