i OB he FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT

HRS AE i FON FIRE SAFETY COMMAND
y ap) 7" Floor, Fire Services Headquarters Building
8 Tile ky) OR BE — 8 aed No. 1 Hong Chong Road
AG MRARt peso Zee Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon
Hong Kong

AAZ SE Our Ref.: (25) in FP(FS) 314/07 IV
Ae RES Your Ref. :
(EISC(SEL Fax No.: (852) 2312 0376
@ =i Tel No.: (852) 2170 9595
2B —F- EMA Email: fschq@hkfsd.gov.hk

31 October 2016

To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters

Dear Sirs/Madams,

FSD Circular Letter No. 5/2016
Revised Supply Tank Requirement for Hose Reel System
in Connection with the Enforcement of
the Fire Safety (Buildings) Ordinance (Cap. 572), Laws of Hong Kong

This Circular Letter serves to announce the revised supply tank
requirement for hose reel system in connection with the enforcement of the Fire
Safety (Buildings) Ordinance (Cap. 572) (here-in-after as ‘the Ordinance’). This
Circular Letter should be read in conjunction with FSD Circular Letter No. 3/2007.

At present, a fire hydrant/hose reel system is required for certain types of
composite buildings and domestic buildings (here-in-after as ‘target buildings’) in
accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance. In enforcing the Ordinance in a
flexible and pragmatic manner, target buildings of six storeys or below or less than
20 metres in height with one of the major facades accessible by fire appliances via
the emergency vehicular access, the fire hydrant/hose reel system requirement may
be relaxed such that only the installation of a hose reel system is required. The
relaxation has been detailed in FSD Circular Letter No. 3/2007. As a general rule,
a hose reel system shall be equipped with a supply tank of 2,000 litres effective
capacity. However, some building owners still encounter difficulties in installing
the supply tank owing to spatial/structural constraints. In the light of this, FSD has
conducted a risk assessment study with a view to further assisting the building
owners concerned to comply with the fire safety improvement requirements.

Perr doe?

Reference number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter

fz RA fe HH 5| tm wR A WH

2.

The study demonstrates that the supply tank requirements can be
appropriately adjusted with reference to FSD’s emergency response time.
Currently, this Department pledges to respond to building fire calls within 6 minutes
in built-up areas and within 9 to 23 minutes in areas of dispersed risks and isolated
developments. With due consideration of the said response time and the objective
to improve fire safety standards under the Ordinance, the requirement for the
effective supply tank capacity of the hose reel system for target buildings has been
revised and tabulated below:

Requirements for the Effective Supply
For Target Buildings within: Tank Capacity of
the Hose Reel System (in litres)

500

Dispersed Risks and Isolated

The revised supply tank requirement for hose reel system has taken effect
on 12 October 2016.

Yours faithfully,

i,
(Dr LO Siu-hang)
for Director of Fire Services

Reference number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter

te RA fe HH S| Mw RR AH