7 BG Bea 8. , FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT

S
fie OB ee SE HE A Sa LICENSING AND CERTIFICATION COMMAND

gp > i y S/F, Fire Services Headquarters Building
& HE TL RE RY OB BR OER Oe EE 1 wi No. 1 Hong Chong Road, Tsim Sha Tsui East
4 BG Be 8 Bh A SR wy: stp i Kowloon, Hong Kong
aR ToSeOw
Og GON”

ARES OUR REF.: (39 ) in FP(LC) 314/07 Pt.8
Ae YOUR REF.:

ISce#EL FAX: 852 - 2723 2197

SMe E-MAIL: Icpolic2@hkfsd.gov.hk

& 4 TEL. NO.: 852 - 2733 7619

12 December 2018
To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters
Dear Sir/Madam,

FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2018
Guidelines on the Formulation of Fire Safety Improvement Plans

This circular letter serves to advise on the work procedures to be adopted for shutting
down fire service installations and equipment (FSIs), if necessary, in buildings/premises when
carrying out fire safety improvement works in accordance with the Fire Safety (Commercial
Premises) Ordinance (Cap. 502) or Fire Safety (Buildings) Ordinance (Cap. 572). The
recommended work procedures are detailed at Annex I.

FSIs are installed in buildings/premises for the protection of life and property in case of
fire. Any FSI which is shut down or fails to function may constitute a fire hazard as defined in
section 2 of the Fire Services Ordinance (Cap. 95). FSI owners are required under regulation 8
of the Fire Service (Installations and Equipment) Regulations (Cap. 95B) to keep their FSIs in
efficient working order at all times and have them inspected at least once in every 12 months
by a registered fire service installation contractor (RFSIC). However, it has come to our notice
that FSIs have been shut down for months in some buildings/premises where fire safety
improvement works were underway. In some cases, the works had even commenced prior to the
approval of the fire service installation plans (i.e., FSI/314B or FSI/314C submissions) and have
lasted for an unreasonably long period of time.

In this regard, RFSICs are reminded to take heed of the hazards posed by the shutdown
of FSIs in buildings/premises. They should make professional assessment of the circumstances
and strictly observe the FSI shutdown guidelines set out in Appendix 9 to The Code of Practice
for Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of Installations and Equipment (2012 Revision) and the

./p. 2

FSD Circular Letter No. 3/2008. ONLY FSIs in the affected zone should be shut down. In
addition, RFSICs should commence fire safety improvement works under Cap. 502 or Cap. 572
only after approval on the relevant fire service installation plans has been obtained.

Recently, there have also been some cases where Fire Service inlets, hose reels and/or
manual fire alarm call points had been put in place before the installation of the water supply
systems and electrical parts was completed, giving the occupiers of the buildings/premises and fire
personnel misleading impression that the FSIs were in proper working order. RFSICs are thus
advised to stick a BLUE label tape to the newly installed FSIs that are yet to be commissioned or
their parts and put up suitable notices for easy identification. Relevant photos and a sample of
such notices are shown at Annex II for reference.

For enquiries, please contact our Fire Service Installations Task Force at 2733 1567 or
our Building Improvement Division at 2807 9100.

Yours faithfully,

oe VEO

(LEUNG Kwun-hong)
for Director of Fire Services

Apri

Encl.

Annex I

Work Procedures to be Adopted when Carrying Out
Fire Safety Improvement Works

Detailed planning in advance is a prerequisite for the timely completion of works projects.
This is even more so when it comes to fire safety improvement works, especially when several
related works are carried out concurrently in the same building/premises. In formulating fire
safety improvement plans, registered fire service installation contractors (RFSICs) are advised to
adopt the following work procedures.

Firstly, it is imperative that the fire safety improvement works (such as installation of fire
hydrants (FH)/hose reel (HR) systems, sprinkler systems and/or manual fire alarm systems for
compliance with the standards stipulated in The Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service
Installations and Equipment (1994 Revision)) carried out in buildings/premises under the Fire
Safety (Commercial Premises) Ordinance (Cap. 502) or Fire Safety (Buildings) Ordinance (Cap.
572) commence only with the prior approval of the Fire Services Department on the fire service
installation plans (i.e., FSI/314B or FSI/314C submissions). If the works also require the
approval from other government departments, application should be made in advance.

Secondly, major components of the systems of fire service installations and equipment (FSI),
such as fire service/sprinkler water tanks and pumps, should be installed at the initial stage to
ensure that the integral parts of the systems are ready for use as early as practicable.

Thirdly, RFSICs are advised to stick a BLUE label tape to the newly installed FSIs that are
pending acceptance testing or yet to be commissioned or their parts and put up suitable notices for
easy identification. Such notice should be laminated or kept in a transparent plastic holder and
firmly stuck to the affected FSIs. Relevant photos and a sample of such notices are shown at
Annex II for reference.

Fourthly, where existing FSIs are converted to form part of a new system, for the sake of
public safety, they should be shut down at the conversion stage ONLY so as to maintain their
functionality and to avoid shutdown of FSIs for months pending conversion while without annual
inspections. RFSICs are advised to exercise professional judgement in determining the duration
and scale of the shutdown and strictly adhere to the shutdown procedures set out in The Code of
Practice for Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of Installations and Equipment (2012 Revision)
to minimise the impact.

Take FH/HR systems as an example. If an FH/HR system has to be installed in a building
protected by a dry riser system under a fire safety direction, the works to convert the components
of the existing dry riser system to be part of the new FH/HR system should be carried out at the
final stage of the improvement works to avoid unnecessary shutdown of the dry riser system. The
FSIs pending conversion should still be kept in efficient working order at all times and inspected
at least once in every 12 months throughout the improvement works.

Markings Sample : Annex II

Ia case of fire, please call 999 and
notify the property management

office iinmediatels
MELB MRM 999
ere tae

Break Glass Unit

Markings Sample Annex II

WARNING 3

In case of fire, please call 999 and
notify the property management
office immediately
SRA + ILENE 999 1
MA RATE

F.S. Inlet

Hose Reel

Markings Sample Annex II

Fire Hydrant

Notice Sample —

WARNING 225
MBSE CAL

Fire Service Installations Improvement Works Notice

Doe ee aS AaB >
RE SC DARTT A EFA °

This installation is part of the Fire Service
Installations Improvement Works.

It will not be ready for use until the works

are completed.

TTS se Ba a Registered Fire Service Installation Contractor :

ie ees BS 3h/Emergency Contact:

Fy BH/Date:

In case of fire, please call 999 and
notify the property management
office immediately
WIA KS > FILE BE 999 Ke
RIS S ea

tH No less than 12 cm

Wd QZ URY} sso] ON

Annex II