FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 5foi ~jj at 
LICENSING & CERTIFICATION COMMAND ~~&~mi,,~ 5/F, Fire Services Headquarters Building, 
W~:fL~~~ll_§_}l:[gjlll!t;lfili:-~ No . I Hong Chong Road , Tsim Sha Tsui East, 
Kowloon, Hong Kong 5Jl1 Jl,o t.! W */Jr .li fW 
*~¥el'lJ/Jf OUR REF.: (19) in FP(LC) 314/07 Pt. 10 
*15h¥el'lJ/Jf YOUR REF.: 
!i:Xf$Ji FAX NO.: 852 2723 2197 
~r!ffll{tf: E-mail: Icpolic2@hkfsd.gov.hk 
~ lfi5 TEL. NO.: 852 2733 7619 
7 June 2023 
To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
FSD Circular Letter No. 3/2023 
Specification of Gas Extraction System for 
Battery Room and Electrical Charging Facilities 
This Circular Letter serves to announce the revised specification of gas extraction 
system in battery rooms and electrical charging facilities, supplementary to the Code ofPractice 
for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment (September 2022) (the "CoP"). 
Currently, the specification of the gas extraction system for battery rooms shall 
comply with relevant requirements set out in paragraph 8 - Battery Rooms Mechanical 
Ventilating Systems, of Part XI of FSD Circular Letter No. 4/96. With a view to enhancing 
fire safety standards in battery room and electrical charging facilities, a Sub-working Group 
joined by Ventilation Installation Liaison Group and Fire Safety Standard Advisory Group has 
conducted a holistic review on the requirements. The specification of gas extraction system 
has been revised with details provided in the Appendix of this Circular Letter. 
The gas extraction system as required by the CoP would serve for reducing 
concentration of flammable vapour/gas, such as hydrogen, which may be released during 
charging of the battery, to below its lower explosion limit. The gas extraction system shall be 
inspected and tested to demonstrate the satisfactory performance including gas extraction flow 
rate, means of actuation, audio and visual indication for status monitoring and other 
requirements as specified and may be prescribed by this Department on the account of specific 
features of the system. 
The system shall be maintained in efficient working order at all times and shall be 
inspected by a registered fire service installation contractor at least once in every 12 months . 
. . . ./2 
Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
fL t'E &. ;$: {~ ~ ffi ~I ~ ~I 5!ff. &. B M 
2 -
The paragraph 8 of Part XI ofFSD Circular Letter No. 4/96 is hereby superseded and 
the revised specification shall be applicable to all developments with initial building plan 
submission received by this Department on or after 1 September 2023. Building plans 
submitted before 1 September 2023 are welcome to voluntarily adopt these revised 
requirements. 
For enquiries, please contact our Fire Service Installations Division at 3961 5217 
during office hours. 
Encl. 
Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
fL m & *{g Mi ~J!i sl :lltt ~i 51ft & B Wl 
Gas Extraction System for Appendix 
Battery Room and Electrical Charging Facilities 
1. Purpose 
1.1 The Gas Extraction System referred herein is regarded as fire service 
installation as defined under Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service 
Installations and Equipment. 
1.2 The purpose of providing gas extraction system to battery room and 
electrical charging facilities is to reduce the concentration of flammable 
vapour/gas, such as hydrogen, which may be released during the charging 
ofthe battery, to below its lower explosion limit. 
1.3 Gas extraction system shall be provided to dedicated battery room 
accommodating the following types of battery having total outputs of not 
less than 400 Ampere-hour:-
(i) Lead-acid; 
(ii) Nickel-cadmium; or 
(iii) Other types of battery evolving flammable vapour/gas during 
recharging of the battery. 
2. Requirements for Dedicated Battery Room 
2.1 All open type batteries regardless of size shall be accommodated m 
dedicated battery room. 
3. Design Calculation 
3.1 Gas extraction system shall be provided to battery room to keep the 
concentration offlammable vapour/gas below the safety limit. 
3.2 The extraction rate shall be provided in accordance with one of the 
following: 
(i) The safety limit of hydrogen gas concentration inside the battery 
room is 1 % by volume maximum during the worst-case event of 
simultaneous "boost" charging of all the batteries.; or 
(ii) The extraction shall be provided at a rate not less than 5.1 
Litre/sec/m2) of the floor area of the room. 
3.3 The design of the gas extraction system for this purpose shall follow the 
guidelines in BS EN IEC 62485-1, BS EN IEC 62485-2, NFPAl, 
NFPAl 11 or other acceptable international standards as agreed by the 
Director of Fire Services. In accepting gas extraction systems for battery 
system, the Director of Fire Services may require a set of design 
calculations to be submitted to substantiate that the gas extraction system 
has been properly designed to meet the above requirement. 
Page 1 of 3 
4. Technical Requirements 
4.1 The ventilating fan shall be constructed of non-combustible material and 
the fan motor shall be of totally enclosed fan cooled (TEFC) type. 
4.2 The gas extraction system for the battery room shall be independent to all 
other systems in the building. The extracted air shall be exhausted directly 
to open air. 
4.3 Extraction points shall be located at the highest level of the room while air 
inlets shall be at low level. Extraction points and air inlets shall be so 
arranged that a "cross-flow" effect can be achieved in all areas within the 
room. 
4.4 The gas extraction system shall be operated by means of continuous 
ventilation or electrically interlocked with the battery charger. 
4.5 Ifthe ventilation is not continuously provided, the ventilating fan motor 
shall be electrically interlocked with the battery charger so that the charger 
cannot be put in operation when the ventilating fan is not running. 
Electricity supply for the ventilating fan(s) shall be from an independent 
circuit other than that ofthe battery charger, and the interlock control relay 
shall be protected by an independent protective device. 
4.6 If due to the functional requirement of the batteries, the condition in 
paragraph 4.4 cannot be met, alternative safety measures may be accepted 
but these must be agreed by the Director of Fire Services before 
installation. 
4.7 All components of the gas extraction system shall be made of corrosion 
resistant materials. 
4.8 The operation of gas extraction system shall not affect the operation of 
other fire service installations in case of fire. 
4.9 The status ofeach fan comprising "Power Supply On", "Fan Running" and 
"Fan Failed" are monitored and displayed at the local control panel. Audio 
and visual indication shall be provided at fire control panel to monitor the 
status of the gas extraction system. 
4.10 Ifthe gas extraction system ductwork passes through compartments, any 
part of the ductwork outside the serviced compartment shall be totally 
enclosed ·by fire resisting construction to BS 476: Part 20, to the same fire 
resisting period as the serviced compartment or the containing 
compartment whichever is the higher. 
Page 2 of3 
4.11 All ductwork designed to operate at static pressure in excess of 750 Pa, 
including builders work ducts or shafts and other construction shall, be 
pressure tested to Building and Engineering Services Association 
specification DW 143 or subsequent amendments. No pressure sensitive 
tapes shall be used for sealing. 
4.12 Generally, there shall be no damper nor other restrictions in the ductwork 
or shafts. The exceptions shall be where enclosure integrity is required for 
effective operation of other fire service installations or at main exhaust 
louvre. 
4.13 Cables used for gas extraction system shall comply with the same 
requirements of items 2 to 15 stipulated in Appendix 8 of the Code of 
Practice for Inspection, Testing and Maintenance of Installations and 
Equipment (September 2022). 
5. Inspection, Testing and Maintenance 
5.1 The gas extraction system shall be inspected and tested to demonstrate the 
satisfactory performance including gas extraction flow rate, means of 
actuation, audio and visual indication for status monitoring and other 
requirements as specified and may be prescribed by Fire Services 
Department on the account of specific features of the system. 
5.2 The system shall be maintained in efficient working order at all times and 
shall be inspected by a registered fire service installation contractor at least 
once in every 12 months. 
Page 3 of3