FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 5fli 13n ~ 
LICENSING & CERTIFICATION COMMAND ~~Ez.~:fltti~ 5/F, Fire Services Headquarters Building, 
'!' ~11~ ~ )!9U.§.* l5lH1tlf.f m-~ No. I Hong Chong Road, Tsim Sha Tsui East, 
Kowloon, Hong Kong 5/!41ir.i~W*/jf_E.~ 
:zf;:!J!tffl~ OUR REF.: (18) in FP(LC) 314/07 Pt. 10 
*1:iBJffl~ YOUR REF.: 
ll!:X:f$Jt FAX NO.: 852 2723 2197 
11[-=f-j3ftf: E-mail: 1cpolic2@hkfsd.gov.hk 
11[ g\5 TEL. NO.: 852 2733 7619 
7 June 2023 
To: Recipients ofFSD Circular Letters 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2023 
Fire Safety Requirements for Mechanical Ventilating Systems 
This Circular Letter serves to announce the revised fire safety requirements for 
mechanical ventilating systems and arrangements oftheir implementation. These requirements 
will take effect on 1 September 2023, thereby superseding relevant requirements stipulated in 
Part XI of FSD Circular Letter No. 4/96. 
With a view to enhancing fire safety standards of mechanical ventilating systems, a 
Sub-working Group joined by the Ventilation Installation Liaison Group and the Fire Safety 
Standard Advisory Group, has conducted a holistic review on relevant requirements. The Sub­
working Group revised the fire safety requirements for mechanical ventilating systems falling 
within the scopes of the following government regulations respectively. Details are as follows. 
(i) Building (Ventilating Systems) Regulations (Cap. 123J) 
(ii) Ventilation of Scheduled Premises Regulation (Cap. 132CE) 
The revised requirements "Fire Safety Requirements for Mechanical Ventilating 
Systems", is attached at Appendix 1 to this letter. Apart from updating of relevant 
requirements with reference to the current international/national standards, main 
areas of revision are as follows:-
(a) Specified requirements for installations inside mechanical ventilating systems; 
... ./2 
Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
.fl t:ll!: .& :,t,: {i"f ~ ffi ~I :i1tt ~ 51ft .& B Wl 
2 -
(b) Specified requirements for air filter cells and air filter media, electrostatic 
precipitators, and fire and smoke dampers used in mechanical ventilating 
systems; 
(c) Updated requirements for installation of insulation materials near fire dampers; 
(d) Updated "Inspection Checklist for Mechanical Ventilating System". 
(iii) Dangerous Goods Ordinance, Cap. 295 
The requirements were revised to conform with the amended Dangerous Goods 
Ordinance (Cap. 295) which came into effect on 31 March 2022. The revised 
requirements were incorporated into Section 2.3.3, Chapter 2.3 of "A Guide to 
Application for Dangerous Goods Licence and Approval" issued by this Department. 
The guide can be downloaded from the following FSD's Dangerous Goods Thematic 
website: 
https:/ / es.hkfsd. gov.hk/ dg/ en/licence/ guide/ 
(iv) Fire Service (Installation and Equipment) Regulations, Cap. 95B 
The requirements were revised to align with the requirements of gas extraction 
system for the type of premises with battery rooms and electrical charging facilities 
stipulated in the Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and 
Equipment (Sep 2022). These revised requirements are to be promulgated separately 
in FSD Circular Letter no. 3/2023. 
For enquiries, please contact our Ventilation Division at 2718 7567 or Fire Service 
Installations Division at 3961 5217 during office hours. 
f 
Yours 
) 
for Director ervices 
Encl. 
Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
.fl tJt & ::$: {~ B:!t ITT1i §I :l1lb ~ 51ft & B M 
Appendix 1 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
Annex 1 
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR 
MECHANICAL VENTILATING SYSTEMS 
Installations inside Mechanical Ventilating Systems 
Air Filters Used in Mechanical Ventilating Systems 
Fire Dampers and Fire and Smoke Dampers Used in 
Mechanical Ventilating Systems 
Electrostatic Precipitators Used in Mechanical 
Ventilating Systems 
Thermal Insulation for Ductwork and Pipework 
Electric Heating Elements Used in Mechanical 
Ventilating Systems 
Flexible Air Ducts Used in Mechanical Ventilating 
Systems 
Use ofFalse Ceilings and Elevated Floors (Other Than 
Installations at Computer Rooms) as Ductwork 
Requirements for Protection against Fire and Smoke in 
Protected Areas 
Inspection Checklist for Mechanical Ventilating System 
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR 
MECHANICAL VENTILATING SYSTEMS 
1. Installations inside Mechanical Ventilating Systems 
1.1 Unless otherwise specified fire safety requirements, no combustible materials shall 
be allowed in ductwork and mechanical ventilating system equipment pursuant to 
the Building (Ventilating Systems) Regulations (Cap. 1231) or Ventilation of 
Scheduled Premises Regulation (Cap. 132CE). If forming part of the ventilating 
system, other apparatus such as tubes, electric wiring and control equipment shall 
be encapsulated in metallic conduits or castings. 
2. Air Filters Used in Mechanical Ventilating Systems 
2.1 Air Filter Cells and Air Filter Media 
2.1.1 Air filter cells (i.e. media plus media enclosure) and air filter media shall 
be constructed of materials in compliance with the fire property 
requirements under one ofthe following standards: 
BS 476 : Part 4 - Non-combustibility Test for Materials 
BS 476: Part 6 - Method of Test for Fire Propagation for products 
with overall performance index "I"~ 12 and sub­
index "i 1" (derived from the initial period of the 
test)~ 6 
UL900 - Standard for Air filter Units, Class l or Class 2 
DIN 53438 - Response to Ignition by a Small Flame, Surface 
Part 3 Ignition, Class Fl 
2.2 Air Filter Cell Support Framework 
2.2.1 Air filter cell support framework for individual and multiple cell 
installations shall be constructed ofnon-combustible materials conforming 
to BS 476 : Part 4 and have a mechanical strength equivalent to that of a 
1 mm thick galvanised steel sheet. 
2.2.2 All components such as gaskets, seals, etc. between the air filter cells and 
the support framework shall comply with the same fire property 
requirements for the cells as detailed in paragraph 2.1 above. 
Pl of 13 
2.3 Metallic Air Filter Cells 
2.3. l Air filter cells wholly constructed of metal (i.e. where the filter media is 
formed from a grid or mesh of metal such as stainless steel, aluminium 
and etc.) shall not be subject to this set of fire safety requirements. 
Note: No use of steel wool is permitted (please refer to section 4(1 )(g) of 
the Building (Ventilating Systems) Regulations (Cap. 123J)). 
2.3.2 If, however, the metallic media is coated with combustible substance, it 
shall be regarded as a special filter and be subject to requirements laid 
down in paragraph 2.4 below. 
2.4 Special Filter Installations 
2.4. l For special filter applications such as the removal of smell by activated 
carbon filters, submissions shall be made to the Director of Fire Services 
for relaxation of the requirements laid down in paragraphs 2.1 and 2.2 
above and for clarification on any specific additional fire safety 
precautions that may be necessary. 
2.5 Filter Identification 
2.5. l All air filter cells and air filter media except those mentioned in paragraph 
2.3 above shall, at the place of manufacture, have the following 
information clearly marked or stamped in a conspicuous and readily 
accessible location: 
(a) Manufacturer's name; 
(b) Country of origin; 
(c) Filter type and model number; and 
(d) The standard to which the filter has been type-tested. 
2.5.2 The Director of Fire Services may require applicants to submit a copy of 
the Certificate ofType Test for the air filter cells and air filter media issued 
by (i) Mainland China's/overseas laboratories/organisations that provide 
product certification service with approved listing scheme/service and are 
accredited by Mainland China's/overseas accreditation bodies; or (ii) local 
laboratories/organisations that provide product certification service with 
approved listing scheme/service and are accredited by the Hong Kong 
Accreditation Service through the Hong Kong Certification Body 
Accreditation Scheme (HKCAS). Failure to submit the certificate will 
render the application for filter installation unsuccessful. 
P 2 ofl3 
3. Fire Dampers and Fire and Smoke Dampers Used in Mechanical Ventilating 
Systems 
The paragraphs below provide details about the manufacturing standards and installation 
requirements for fire dampers as well as fire and smoke dampers used in mechanical 
ventilating/air conditioning systems. Opening for passage of ductwork through any 
compartment wall, floor or ceiling of fire-rated structure should be protected with fire 
dampers to maintain the required fire resistance rating (FRR) of the building elements. 
3.1 Non-proprietary Manufactured Blade Type Fire Dampers 
3.1. l For any ductwork which passes through any floor or ceiling and requires 
the provision of a fire damper, the fire damper blades shall be constructed 
of 6 mm thick mild steel plate. The associated casing shall also be 
constructed to this standard. 
3.1.2 For any ductwork which passes through any wall and requires the 
provision of a fire damper, the fire damper shall be constructed of: 
(a) 3 mm thick mild steel plate when the wall in which the fire damper 
is mounted has an FRR of less than 2 hours; 
(b) 6 mm thick mild steel plate when the wall in which the fire damper 
is mounted has an FRR of 2 hours or more. 
The associated casing shall also be constructed to this standard. 
3.1.3 Angle section steel or similar structural members shall be employed in the 
construction of the fire damper casing framework to provide structural 
rigidity for the purpose of preventing the deforming of the damper casing 
and maintaining clearance between the fixed and the moving parts in all 
operating conditions. 
3.1.4 The lateral clearance between the moving blades and the damper casing 
shall not exceed 1.5 mm. For multiple-blade fire dampers, each blade shall 
be arranged in such a way to come into contact and overlap the adjacent 
ones by a minimum of 5 mm when the damper is in the closed position. 
Suitable stoppers shall be provided on the casing to maintain the blades in 
a stable position when the damper is closed. 
3.1.5 Bushes constructed of brass or similar materials shall be provided for all 
the blade spindles of the fire damper. 
3.1.6 The length of the fire damper casing shall be longer than that of the fire 
damper assembly by not less than 30 mm when the fire damper is in an 
open position, i.e. not less than 15 mm at either end. 
P 3 of 13 
3.1.7 The closing of the fire damper shall be done solely by the weight of the 
damper blade(s), not actuated by springs or other dead weights. 
3.l.8 To avoid sagging of the damper blade under its own weight, each damper 
blade shall not be longer than 600 mm. Structural opening with a width 
greater than this dimension shall be protected by multiple fire damper units. 
In special cases where it is not possible to comply with the limit of600 mm, 
a slight extension beyond this may be allowed but proof must be presented 
to the Director of Fire Services to establish that the smooth operation and 
the function of the fire damper will not be impaired. 
3.2 Proprietary Manufactured Fire Dampers 
3.2.1 As an alternative to the non-proprietary manufactured blade type fire 
dampers as specified in paragraph 3.1 above, proprietary manufactured 
fire dampers with the construction and mounting method conforming to a 
national/international standard accepted by (i) Mainland China's/overseas 
laboratories/organisations that provide product certification service and 
approved listing scheme/service, and are accredited by Mainland 
China's/overseas accreditation bodies; or (ii) local 
laboratories/organisations that provide product certification service and 
approved listing scheme/service and are accredited by the Hong Kong 
Accreditation Service through the Hong Kong Certification Body 
Accreditation Scheme (HKCAS) may be used, and the fire damper shall 
have an FRR that is the same as that of the structure it protects. The fire 
dampers shall comply with the fire property requirements under one ofthe 
following acceptable national or international standards: 
(a) BS 476: Part 20 for Integrity only (i.e. excluding insulation and 
load bearing performance criteria) 
(b) BS EN 1366-2 for Integrity only (i.e. excluding insulation and load 
bearing performance criteria) 
(c) ISO 21925 -1 for Integrity only (i.e. excluding insulation and load 
bearing performance criteria) 
(d) Underwriters Laboratories Inc. -UL 555. 
3.2.2 The following information shall, at the place of manufacture, be clearly 
and durably marked in a conspicuous location on the fire damper : 
(a) Manufacturer's name; and 
(b) Type and model number. 
P 4 of 13 
3.3 Fire and Smoke Dampers 
3.3.1 Proprietary manufactured fire and smoke dampers with the construction 
and mounting method conforming to a national/international standard 
accepted by (i) Mainland China's/overseas laboratories/organisations 
that provide product certification service and approved listing 
scheme/service, and are accredited by Mainland China's/overseas 
accreditation bodies; or (ii) local laboratories/organisations that provide 
product certification service with approved listing scheme/service and are 
accredited by the Hong Kong Accreditation Service through the Hong 
Kong Certification Body Accreditation Scheme (HKCAS) may be used, 
and the fire and smoke damper has an FRR that is the same as that of the 
structure it protects. The fire and smoke dampers shall comply with the 
fire property requirements under one of the following acceptable national 
or international standards: 
(a) BS 476 : Part 20 or UL 555 for Integrity only (i.e. excluding 
insulation and load bearing performance criteria) and UL 555S 
Leakage Class I or 2; 
(b) BS EN 1366 -2; 
(c) ISO 21925 - I. 
3.3.2 The following information shall, at the place of manufacture, be clearly 
and durably marked in a conspicuous place on the fire and smoke damper: 
(a) Manufacturer's name; and 
(b) Type and model number. 
3.4 General Requirements 
The requirements for fire dampers detailed below shall also apply to fire and 
smoke dampers. 
3.4.1 The fusible link shall be located in such a way not to impede the closing 
action of the fire damper. 
3.4.2 The fusible link shall be a type approved by the Director of Fire Services 
and shall be imprinted with its brand name, the operating temperature 
and/or a lot number and/or clearly marked/stamped with the standard to 
which the link has been type-tested. Under no circumstances shall the 
rated temperature of the fusible link exceed 69°C. 
3.4.3 The fire damper shall be installed in such a way that the air flow will not 
impede the closing action of the fire damper. 
P 5 of 13 
3.4.4 The fire damper shall be securely installed on the plane of the fire 
separation wall in such a way that it will stay in place even ifthe ductwork 
is dislodged during a fire. 
3.4.5 Where it is not possible to install a non-proprietary manufactured blade 
type fire damper on the plane of the fire separation wall due to site 
constraints, the section of the damper casing outside the wall, being an 
extension of the fire damper, must be encased in fire resistant materials 
with an FRR (integrity only) of not less than that of the wall and be 
adequately supported/protected against the risk of displacement/damage 
by impact. As for proprietary manufactured fire dampers, the construction 
and mounting method is subject to the requirements laid down in 
paragraph 3.2.1 above. 
3.4.6 Each fire damper shall be provided with a properly located and adequately 
sized access panel to facilitate inspection and maintenance. 
3.4.7 No ductwork internal lining and silencers packed with acoustic insulation 
materials shall be installed within 1 m from the fire damper; since in a fire, 
the damper, though closed, will be at an elevated temperature and may 
cause flame spread along the internal lining inside the ductwork in the 
adjoining compartments. However, the requirement on separation 
distance between the fire damper and internal insulation/silencers may be 
waived if the insulation/sound attenuation materials are securely encased 
in perforated galvanised steel sheet or metal and with diameter of 
perforation not greater than 3 mm and at distance between centres not less 
than 5 mm. 
3.5 Air Transfer Openings Breaching FRR Enclosures 
3.5. I All air transfer openings breaching the walls, floor or ceiling ofa fire rated 
enclosure shall be protected by fire dampers which have an FRR not less 
than that of the enclosure and conform to the requirements as detailed in 
paragraph 3.1 or 3.2 above. 
4. Electrostatic Precipitators Used in Mechanical Ventilating Systems 
4.1 Electrostatic precipitators shall be of a type approved by the Director of Fire 
Service, with their construction in compliance with the applicable safety 
requirements stipulated in UL 867 and UL 710 or other acceptable national or 
international standards. 
4.2 The electrostatic precipitator shall, at the place of manufacture, have the following 
information clearly marked in a conspicuous location: 
(a) Manufacturer's name; 
(b) Country of origin; and 
(c) Type and model number. 
P 6 of 13 
Besides, a warning notice bearing the words "DANGER -HIGH VOLTAGE 
PARTS INSIDE/f/t~-pq~ ~ffi~{t" shall be displayed on the equipment's 
casmg. 
4.3. Protective, safety interlocking and monitoring devices shall be in good working 
order. 
5. Thermal Insulation for Ductwork and Pipework 
5.1 Definitions 
The following terms are defined as below: 
5.1.1 "Ductwork" refers to all types of duct or plenum for conveying air; and 
5.1.2 "Pipework" refers to all types of piping. 
5.2 Application 
5.2.1 This section lays down the fire safety requirements for ductwork and 
pipework in terms of thermal or acoustic insulation. 
5.3 Internal Insulation for Ductwork 
5.3.1 The fire property requirement for ductwork in terms of internal insulation 
stipulates that all insulation materials, including the associated fasteners, 
adhesives, tapes etc., shall conform to BS 476 : Part 6 with the overall 
performance index "I" not exceeding 12 and the sub-index "ii" not more 
than 6. Equivalent national or international standards are also acceptable. 
5.4 External Insulation for Ductwork and Pipework 
5.4.1 The fire property requirement for ductwork and pipework in terms of 
external insulation stipulates that all insulation materials, including the 
associated fasteners, adhesives, tapes flexible connectors etc., shall 
conform to BS 476 : Part 7, Class 1 or 2 or equivalent national or 
international standards, or be brought up to that standard by the use of an 
approved fire-retardant product. 
5.4.2 For the purpose of paragraph 5.4.1 above, an "approved fire-retardant 
product" refers to any of the following: 
(a) Aluminium foil vapour barrier (for mineral wool and fibre glass 
insulating materials only); 
(b) Plastering of 12 mm minimum thickness; or 
P 7 of 13 
(c) Metal (aluminium, galvanised steel, etc.) cladding. 
5.5 External Insulation for Ductwork and Pipework at Points of Penetration through 
Compartment Walls, Floors or Ceilings 
5.5. l Where ductwork passes through a structure and is provided with a fire 
damper, its external insulation shall not pass through the structure, but 
shall stop at a suitable fire barrier securely fixed to the external casing of 
the fire damper and the structure. 
5.5 .2 Insulation for pipework passing through a structure shall stop at a suitable 
fire barrier securely fixed to the pipe's external surface and the structure. 
5.5.3 For the purpose of paragraphs 5.5.1 and 5.5.2 above, the fire barrier shall 
have the same FRR as that of the structure through which ductwork or 
pipework passes. It should be noted that the Building Authority is the 
enforcement authority in respect of fire resistance requirements. 
6. Electric Heating Elements Used in Mechanical Ventilating Systems 
6.1 Electric Heating Element Assemblies 
6.1. l Electric heating elements shall be evenly spaced across the sectional area 
of the ductwork on the plane where they are installed. 
6.1.2 The elements shall be metal sheathed and of the "black heat" type with 
extensions for cable connections. They must be secured to fixtures 
constructed of fire resistant materials and end supports shall be provided 
for those exceeding 800 mm in length. 
6.1.3 An external terminal box constructed of fire resistant materials shall be 
provided for all connections. A warning notice bearing the words 
"DANGER - LIVE TERMINALS/ft2;~-~5JJ:fJfi'i,W" shall be displayed 
on the front side of the box. 
6.1.4 Internal wiring shall be heat resistant and the heat resistant rating shall be 
compatible with the normal working temperature of the electric heating 
elements. 
6.1.5 No internal insulation of the ductwork for either acoustic or thermal 
purposes shall be installed within l m from the electric heating element 
assembly. 
6.1.6 An access panel shall be put in place for the assembly to facilitate 
maintenance and cleaning. A small hole for the insertion of a testing 
thermometer shall be provided in the ductwork at approximately 150 mm 
above the elements. 
P 8 of 13 
6.2 Control and Sequence Interlocking of Heater and Fan 
6.2.1 The fan motor shall be controlled by an electromagnetic type contactor 
complete with a suitable thermal overload protection device, manual reset 
on/off push button(s), main and auxiliary contacts for sequence 
interlocking control with the electric heating elements and a heavy-duty 
time delay device with a minimum operational time setting of 3 minutes 
for the fan motor stop control. 
6.2.2 The electricity supply assembly of the electric heating elements shall be 
controlled by contactor(s) and, ifrequired, a step controller as well as the 
fan motor interlocked in the manner as described in paragraphs 6.2.3 to 
6.2.10 below. 
6.2.3 A sequence interlocking control shall be provided to ensure that the 
electric heating elements will not be energised before the start of the fan 
motor. 
6.2.4 A sail switch/differential pressure switch with a fail-safe feature shall be 
provided to de-energise the electric heating elements in case of air flow 
failure inside the ductwork. 
6.2.5 A duct-type overheat thermostat with a fail-safe feature and a manual reset 
button shall be provided at a maximum distance of 600 mm from the 
electric heating elements to ensure that the elements will be switched off 
before the mean temperature inside the ductwork reaches 50°C or within 
90 seconds when the mean temperature exceeds 50°C. 
6.2.6 For the purpose of paragraphs 6.2.4 and 6.2.5 above, "fail-safe" refers to 
the ability of the sail switch/differential pressure switch/overheat 
thermostat to switch offthe electric heating elements when losing all forms 
of power, i.e. when the power supply to the sail switch/ differential 
pressure switch/ overheat thermostat is "OFF". 
6.2.7 The time delay device shall be set in such a way to ensure that once 
switching off button ofthe ventilating system is pressed, the power supply 
to the electric heating elements will be cut off instantly but the fan will be 
allowed to continue to run for a minimum of 3 minutes to dissipate the 
residual heat inside the ductwork system. 
6.2.8 An emergency stop push button shall be provided for, and installed next 
to, the fan motor and the circuit shall be designed in such a way to override 
the time delay device and enable the fan motor to be switched off instantly 
once the emergency stop push button is pressed. The button shall be of a 
manual reset type. 
P 9 of 13 
6.2.9 For summer/winter switching, the time delay control for the fan motor 
shall remain functional when heating or reheating facilities are in the 
summer mode. 
6.2.10 Control circuit voltages shall not exceed 220 volts. 
6.3 Fan Coil Units with Electric Heating Elements 
6.3. l Fan coil units with electric heating elements, which have a total loading 
not exceeding 2 kW, may be exempted from the requirements stipulated 
in paragraphs 6.2.4 and 6.2.7 to 6.2.9 above. Sequence interlocking and 
overheat thermostat control shall be put in place in accordance with 
paragraphs 6.2.3 and 6.2.5 above. 
7. Flexible Air Ducts Used in Mechanical Ventilating Systems 
7. l General Requirements 
7. l .1 Flexible air ducts used in mechanical ventilating systems shall conform 
fully to one of the following standards: 
(a) UL 181 Class l 
(Note: Where flexible ducts tested to UL 181 Class 1 standards 
are constructed of composite layers of materials, these materials 
shall be permanently bonded to each other. Otherwise, each of the 
materials shall be individually tested for flame spread index and 
smoke developed and shall conform to UL 181 Class 1 standards. 
In addition, the internal lining must pass the puncture test as 
described in paragraph 7.1.2 below); or 
(b) BS 476 : Part 6, with the overall performance index "I" not 
exceeding 12 and the sub-index "ii" not more than 6, and pass the 
puncture test as described in paragraph 7.1.2 below. 
7.1.2 Puncture Test 
(a) Principles of the Puncture Test 
The puncture test shall be carried out by using the free fall of a 
plunger onto the surface of a flexible air duct sample. Ifthe flexible 
duct is provided with an external removable insulation layer, the test 
shall be carried out on the duct surface with the insulation layer 
removed. Ifthe flexible air duct comes with a spiral wire, the impact 
position of the plunger shall be on the duct pitch surface and 
between two consecutive wires. 
P 10ofl3 
(b) Details of the Puncture Test 
The plunger shall consist of a 10 mm diameter steel rod together 
with a steel head of 15 mm diameter, a flat impact end and rounded 
edges. The length of the plunger assembly shall be sufficient to 
provide a l kg weight. The surface of the rod and head shall be 
smooth. 
Guides shall be provided and arranged to facilitate an essentially 
frictionless fall ofthe plunger. A means for measuring the height of 
fall shall also be provided. 
Two flexible air duct samples, each measuring 600 mm in length 
when fully stretched, shall be employed for the test. The entire duct 
shall be provided with firm support below, with both ends securely 
maintained in a fully stretched position throughout the test. Each 
sample shall be put to the puncture test at three equally spaced points 
on the duct periphery by rotating it l 20 degrees after each test. 
(c) Acceptance/Failure Criterion for the Puncture Test 
The flexible air duct samples shall be able to resist the complete 
penetration of the duct surface by the plunger head when the latter 
has fallen from a height of not less than 500 mm to the surface of 
the samples. Complete penetration of the plunger at any of the six 
test points means that the samples have failed the test. 
7.2 In addition to paragraph 7.1 above, all flexible air ducts used in mechanical 
ventilating systems shall not exceed 4 m in length for each connection or the final 
connection from the rigid duct to the outlet grilles, VA V boxes, etc. In special 
cases where it is not possible to comply with the requirement of not exceeding the 
length limit of 4 m due to engineering or construction constraints, a slight 
extension beyond the limit is acceptable subject to the agreement of the Director 
of Fire Services, which shall be obtained before installation. 
7.3 No flexible air ducts shall be permitted for use as main air distribution ducts. 
7.4 No flexible air ducts shall be allowed to penetrate through fire resisting walls, 
floors, ceilings and partitions. No direct connection of flexible air ducts to fire 
dampers or fire and smoke dampers shall be allowed. 
8. Use of False Ceilings and Elevated Floors (Other Than Installations at Computer 
Rooms) as Ductwork 
8.1 The voids created between a false ceiling and the building structure, or between 
the building structure and an elevated floor, shall be used as ductwork attached to 
a mechanical ventilating system only if the conditions laid down in paragraph 8.2 
below are satisfied. 
P 11 of 13 
ili_ote: Naturally ventilated spaces are exempted from this requirement if there is 
a fire separation wall between compartments.) 
8.2 Specially designed non-combustible false ceilings, ventilated ceilings or elevated 
floors can be used as a means for conveying air subject to the following conditions: 
8.2. l The materials used in the construction of the false ceiling, ventilated 
ceiling or elevated floor, including any building elements, shall be 
classified as non-combustible when tested to BS 476: Part 4 or equivalent 
national or international standards accepted by (i) Mainland 
China's/overseas laboratories/organisations that provide product 
certification service with approved listing scheme/service and are 
accredited by Mainland China's/overseas accreditation bodies; or (ii) local 
laboratories/organisations that provide product certification service with 
approved listing scheme/service and are accredited by the Hong Kong 
Accreditation Service through the Hong Kong Certification Body 
Accreditation Scheme (HKCAS). The fire property requirements for 
internal insulation for the false ceiling, ventilated ceiling or elevated floor 
shall conform to BS 476: Part 6 as detailed in paragraph 5.3.1 above. 
8.2.2 The serviceability of fire compartments shall be maintained by the 
provision offire and smoke dampers operated by a smoke detector system 
of the probe type. 
8.2.3 All electrical mains distribution and control wirings in the void must be 
contained in heavy-duty gauge metal cable ducts and/or screwed metal 
conduits terminated in such a way to comply with the requirements 
stipulated in the current edition of Code of Practice for the Electricity 
(Wiring) Regulations issued by the Electrical and Mechanical Services 
Department. 
8.2.4 All pipes in the void shall be metallic, and all insulation materials therein 
shall comply with the requirements laid down in paragraph 5 above. 
8.2.5 Pneumatic control lines for air conditioning systems within the void shall 
be constructed of copper. Flexible tubes shall be used only at the final 
connections from the copper pneumatic lines to the air conditioning 
terminals. The tubes shall not exceed 300 mm in length and shall have a 
maximum fire spread distance of 1.5 m when tested to UL 1820. 
8.2.6 The false ceiling, ventilated ceiling or elevated floor shall not contain any 
services other than the essential ones and those exclusively for the area. 
8.2.7 Access to the void shall be provided for cleaning and inspection purposes. 
P 12 of 13 
9. Requirements for Protection against Fire and Smoke in Protected Areas 
9.1 "Protected areas" refer to protected exit and protected lobby as defined in the 
current edition of Code of Practice for Fire Safety in Buildings issued by the 
Buildings Department. 
9.2 No services such as ductworks, drain pipes, chilled water pipes and electrical 
cables/switchgears shall be installed in protected areas. Any of them found 
installed in protected areas shall either be removed or be encased in a fire resistant 
enclosure having an FRR equivalent to that of protected areas in which the 
services are installed. It should be noted that the fire resistant enclosure for this 
purpose shall not reduce the effective dimensions of protected areas as this will 
cause obstruction to safe egress. The arrangements shall be subject to acceptance 
by the Building Authority. 
9.3 Ventilation/air conditioning ( excluding staircase pressurisation) for protected 
areas can be only provided subject to the following conditions: 
9.3.1 All ventilation openings, either supply or exhaust (other than those direct 
to open air), shall be protected by fire and smoke dampers actuated by 
smoke detectors located in protected areas and adjoining compartments on 
the air side which communicate with protected areas. 
9.3.2 Fire and smoke dampers installed in this manner shall comply with the 
requirements stated in paragraph 3.3 above. 
9.3.3 Self-contained fan coil units, which serve only and are wholly situated in 
protected areas, can be installed provided that: 
(a) The fan coil volute casing, fan blades, fan coil enclosure, connected 
ductwork and air distribution devices etc. shall be all constructed of 
or encased in metallic materials; 
(b) All electrical wirings shall be installed inside metal conduits and/or 
enclosures; and 
(c) Insulation materials for the fan coil unit and the associated 
pipework/ductwork shall comply with the requirements as stipulated 
in paragraph 5 above. 
Annex 1 Inspection Checklist for Mechanical Ventilating Systems 
The Checklist at Annex I is designed to provide guidelines for Registered 
Specialist Contractors in the Ventilation Works Category (RSC(V)) to carry out 
acceptance inspection and testing of mechanical ventilating systems. It will also 
assist the relevant works inspectors and the contractors in verifying whether the 
equipment and systems are in conformity with the specified standards and 
requirements. 
P 13 ofl3 
Annex 1 
Inspection Checklist for Mechanical Ventilating System 
Type of Premises : FSD reference : 
Address: 
Insuection Items 
AIR INTAKE1. 
a. Wire meshes made of corrosion-resistant materials having a 
mesh opening not greater than 12 mm provided 
b. Located away from areas with potential fire hazards 
DUCTWORKS2. 
a. Made of non-combustible materials having strength and 
durability not less than that of galvanized iron or steel sheets 
b. Flexible connectors conform to BS 476: Part 6, with the 
overall performance index" I"~ 12 and sub-index" i1" ~ 6 
(with documentary proof attached) 
3. AIR FILTERS 
a. Air filters installed 
b. Metallic air filter provided 
C. Conform to FSD accepted standards (with documentary 
proof attached) 
Specify: 
d. Air filter cells made of non-combustible materials 
e. Air filters are clean 
4. FIRE DAMPERS 
General Requirements 
( applicable to Fire and Smoke Dampers) 
a. Fire dampers installed for all air transfer openings and 
ductworks breaching fire compartments 
b. Fire damper operation matches the air flow direction 
c. Fire dampers properly secured to the structure 
Comply with FSD Remarks 
Requirements 
(Y/N/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
d. Adequate access provided for maintenance 
e. No ductwork internal lining and silencers packed with 
acoustic insulation materials installed within l m from the 
fire damper or the insulation/sound attenuation materials are 
securely encased in perforated galvanized steel sheet or metal 
and with diameter of perforation not greater than 3 mm and 
at distance between centers not less than 5 mm. 
f. Fire dampers are of an appropriate fire resistance rating 
g. Fire dampers close properly when the fusible link lS 
disconnected 
h. Builder's works around the fire damper casing properly made 
good 
Non-Pro(!rietan:: Manufactured Fire Daml!ers 
i. Bushes made of brass or similar materials 
J. For multiple-blade fire dampers, each blade is arranged in 
such a way to come into contact and overlap the adjacent ones 
by a minimum of 5 mm 
k. The lateral clearance between the moving blades and the 
damper casing does not exceed 1.5 mm 
I. The casing is of robust structure 
m. Suitable stoppers provided 
n. Closing solely done by the weight ofthe damper blade(s) 
0. Length of the blade does not exceed 600 mm 
p. The casting is longer than the blade width by at least 15 mm 
at each end when the fire damper is in an open position 
q. Angle section steel or similar structural members employed 
for the casing framework 
Pro(!rietan:: Manufactured Fire Dam(!ers and Fire 
and Smoke Dam(!ers 
Fire Damner 
r. Conform to FSD accepted standards (with documentary 
proof attached) 
Specify: 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
2 
5. 
s. Installed according to the manufacturer's recommendations 
(with details attached) 
t. Marked with the manufacturer's name, type and model 
number 
Fire and Smoke Dam~er 
u. Conform to FSD accepted standards (with documentary 
proof attached) 
Specify: 
v. Installed according to the manufacturer's recommendations 
(with details attached) 
w. Marked with the manufacturer's name, type and model 
number 
Fusible Link 
X. The fusible link installed is ofa type approved by the Director 
of Fire Services ( with documentary proof) 
y. The fusible link does not hinder the damper from closing 
z. The fusible link is imprinted with its brand name, operating 
temperature, lot number and/or the standard to which it has 
been type-tested 
ELECTROSTATIC PRECIPITATORS 
a. Electrostatic precipitators are of a type approved by the 
Director of Fire Services (with documentary proof) 
b. Electrostatic precipitators are marked with the manufacturer's 
name, country of origin, type and model number 
C. Warning notice bearing the words "DANGER - HIGH 
VOLTAGE PARTS INSIDE/:@:~-pg~~ffl~{t/:" is 
displayed on the equipment's casing. 
d. Protective, safety interlocking and monitoring devices are in 
good working order 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
3 
6. THERMAL INSULATION 
(YIN/NA) 
conform to BS 476: Part 6, with the overall performance 
index "I" ~ 12 and sub-index "i1 H ~6 
(with documentary proof attached) 
a. Internal insulation and associated fixing assemblies 
(YIN/NA) 
conform to BS EN 476: Part 7 
(with documentary proof attached) 
b. External insulation and associated fixing assemblies 
C. Mineral wool or fiberglass insulating material used (YIN/NA) 
7. ELECTRIC HEATING ELEMENT IN DUCTWORK 
a. Electric heating elements shall be metal sheathed and of the (YIN/NA) 
"black heat" type with extensions for cable connections 
(YIN/NA) 
area of the ductwork and securely fixed to fire resisting 
fixtures 
b. Electric heating elements evenly spaced across the sectional 
(YIN/NA) 
in length 
C. Supports provided for electric heating elements > 800 mm 
(YIN/NA) 
a warning notice in both English and Chinese 
d. External terminal boxes provided for all connections, with 
(YIN/NA)e. Internal wiring is heat resistant 
(YIN/NA) 
thermal purposes within 1 m from the electric heating 
element assembly 
f. No internal insulation ofthe ductwork for either acoustic or 
g. A small hole provided for the insertion of a testing (YIN/NA) 
thermometer 
(YIN/NA) 
with a time delay device control 
h. Electric heating elements and the blower fan interlocked 
(YIN/NA)I. Once switching off button of the ventilating system is 
pressed, the power supply to the electric heating elements 
cut off instantly and the fan is allowed to continue to run for 
a minimum of 3 minutes 
(YIN/NA)j. Sail switch/differential pressure switch/overheat thermostat 
to switch off the electric heating elements when losing all 
forms of power 
4 
(Y/N/NA)k. The fail-safe overheat thermostat installed and fitted with a 
manual reset button 
(Y/N/NA)I. Heating elements lS switched off before the mean 
temperature inside the ductwork reaches 50°C or within 90 
seconds when the mean temperature exceeds 50°C 
(Y/N/NA)m. An emergency stop push button provided 
(Y/N/NA)11. Access panels provided for maintenance 
8. FLEXIBLE AIR DUCTS 
(Y/N/NA) 
BS EN 476: Part 6, with the overall performance index 
"I" ~ 12 and sub-index "ii" ~ 6, and pass the puncture test 
(with documentary proof attached) 
a. Fully conform to UL 181 Class 1 standards or 
(Y/N/NA)b. Not exceeding 4 min length 
(Y/N/NA)C. Not used as the main air distribution duct 
(Y/N/NA)d. Not penetrating through the fire compartment 
9. VENTILATED FALSE CEILINGS OR 
ELEVATED FLOORS 
(Y/N/NA) 
to BS 476: Part 4, (with documentary proof attached) 
a. Materials used for false ceilings or elevated floors conform 
b. Fire and Smoke Dampers conform to FSD accepted (YIN/NA) 
standards ( with documentary proofattached) 
Specify: 
C. Serviceability of fire compartments maintained by the (Y/N/NA) 
provision of fire and smoke dampers operated by an 
approved smoke detector system ofthe probe type 
d. All electrical mains distribution and control wirings in the (YIN/NA) 
void are contained in heavy-duty gauge metal cable ducts 
and/or screwed metal conduits in compliance with relevant 
standards 
(Y/N/NA)e. All pipes in the void are metallic 
5 
f. Internal insulation and associated fixing assemblies in the 
void conform to BS 476: Part 6, with the overall 
performance index "I" ~ 12 and sub-index "i1" ~ 
6 (with documentary proof attached) 
g. Pneumatic control lines are made of copper 
h. Pneumatic control flexible tubes do not exceed 300 mm in 
length and are ofthe fire-retardant type 
l. No services other than the essential ones and those 
exclusively for the area are installed in the void 
J. Access provided for cleaning and inspection 
10. PROTECTED AREAS 
a. Provided with fire and smoke dampers actuated by approved 
smoke detectors 
b. Fire and Smoke Dampers conform to FSD accepted 
standards (with documentary proof attached) 
Specify: 
C. Fire and smoke dampers installed according to 
manufacturer's recommendations, with details attached 
d. The fan coil volute casing, fan blades, fan coil enclosure, 
connected ductwork and air distribution devices etc. shall 
be all constructed of or encased in metallic materials 
11. OTHERS 
a. No combustible materials in the ductwork and mechanical 
ventilating system equipment 
Inspected and verified by 
(Signature) : 
*Contractor's Authorized Signatory 
(Name in Block Letters) 
Date: 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(Y/N/NA) 
(YIN/NA) 
( Company Chop ) 
*Contractor Company Name 
(Name in Block Letters) 
*Contractor is a Registered Specialist Contractor 
in the Ventilation Works Catef(ory 
6