消 防 處 
消 防 安 全 總 區 
香港 九龍尖沙咀東康莊道一號
消防 處總部大廈七樓
F
IRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
FIRE SAFETY COMMAND 
7/F, Fire Services Headquarters Building 
1 Hong Chong Road, Tsim Sha Tsui East 
Kowloon, Hong Kong 
REF. NUMBER AND DATE SHOULD BE QUOTED IN REFERENCE TO THIS LETTER  
凡提及本信時請引述編號及日期
本處檔號 OUR REF. :  (7) in FSD FSC GR 13-314/07 V
來函檔案 YOUR REF. : 
圖文傳真 FAX NO. : ( 852) 2312 0376
電  話 TEL. NO. : (852) 2170 9670
電子郵件 E-MAIL : fschq@hkfsd.gov.hk
21 March 2024 
To
: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters 
D
ear Sir/Madam, 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2024 
Fire Protection Measures in High-rise Buildings under Construction 
Thi
s Circular Letter serves to announce the revised requirements on fire protection 
measures in high-rise buildings under construction. 
I
n view of  several notable fires in high -rise buildings  under construction, a 
comprehensive review  had been conducted and its result revealed  that the reliability  of water 
relaying facility in such buildings had to be enhanced with a view to  facilitating the firefighting 
operation as well as minimising property damage in the event of fire.  To gather view s from all 
stakeholders in the construction industry  on the revised fire protection measures , a consultation 
exercise which extensively engaged  relevant professional bodies, trades and government 
departments was conducted with positive feedback received. 
I
n gist, the revised requirements on fire protection measures for buildings under 
construction with designed construction height of 30  m or above , measured from 
ground/street level, are provisions of (i) closed -circuit type water relaying system and (ii) other 
fire protection measures in accordance with Annex I. 
T
o ensure  that the respons ible registered general building contractor s / authorized 
persons (RGBC/AP) are aware of the relevant requirements, FSD Officers will visit high -rise 
building(s) under construction for giving suitable advice under section 7(c) of the Fir e Services 
Ordinance, Cap. 95.  S uch advice will be confirmed in writing and be issued to the RGBC/AP  
concerned of the building(s).  After a reasonable period of time, FSD Officers will make further 
visits to conduct practical tests on the  closed-circuit type water relaying system and to ensure all 
the requirements are being complied with. 
…/
2 
- 2 - 
 
REF. NUMBER AND DATE SHOULD BE QUOTED IN REFERENCE TO THIS LETTER  
凡提及本信時請引述編號及日期  
The fire protection measures as listed in Annex  I shall be provided when the 
construction of a building reaches a height of 30 m above ground/street level.  In addition, the 
RGBC/AP concerned shall take responsibility for the followings in order to maintain the fire 
safety level in high-rise buildings under construction: 
(i) Ensure the fire protection measures in the high-rise building s under 
construction are in efficient working order at all times by conducting regular  
checking and maintenance; 
(ii) Take initiative to inform the local fire station, preferably in writing, in different 
construction stages in relation to the provision of fire protection measures .  
For examples , commencement of construction works, the building structure 
reaches a height of 30  m above ground/street level, installation of fire pump  
and scheduled FSI acceptance inspection, etc.; and 
(iii) Inform the local fire station for any  circumstances that may lead to the 
unavailability of the system or the failure of  maintaining the performance of 
the system, such as, but not limited to,  defects, temporary shut -down of or 
changes on the closed -circuit type water relaying system .  In this regard, 
suitable alternative measures should be adopted without delay. 
 
Should there be any non-provision/non-compliance of the  required fire protection 
measures while the construction of a building reaches the height of 30 m or above, or failure of 
maintaining such  protection measures in efficient working order, Fire Hazard Abatement 
Notices may be served to the RGBC/AP  concerned by FSD Officers.  The Fire Hazard 
Abatement Notice s served under section 9 of the Fire Services (Fire Hazard Abatem ent) 
Regulation, Cap. 95F, are enforceable by law and offenders are liable to be prosecuted. 
 
The revised requirements will take effect from 1 July 2024 for all initial building 
plan submissions received by this Department.  The requirements as stipulated in FSD 
Circular Letter No. 2/2008 remain applicable to those building plans  received before this 
Circular Letter being in force.   Notwithstanding the above, voluntary compliance with the 
revised requirements before the effective date is strongly encouraged. 
 
Seminars on the new requirements will be conducted shortly through the platform of 
“FSD Connects with the Industries”. 
 
For enquiries, please contact Senior Divisional Officer (New Projects) at 3971 4600. 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
( LEUNG Wai-lok ) 
for Director of Fire Services 
Encl. 
1/4 
 
Annex I 
 
Requirements for Fire Protection Measures 
in High-rise Buildings under Construction 
 
 
For buildings with designed construction height of 30 m or above measured from 
ground/street level, a closed-circuit type water relaying system1 and other fire protection measures 
to facilitate firefighting operation shall  be provided for each building block under construction 
when it reaches the height of 30 m above ground/street level.  The following requirements shall be 
complied with: 
 
Closed-circuit Type Water Relaying System 
 
(a) Fire Service (F.S.) Inlet 
(1) Each F.S. inlet shall be in a prominent position on ground/street level at the exterior of 
each building block and preferably near the stair case where the fire hydrant outlets 
situated.  For construction site involving one building only, F.S. inlet could be provided 
in a prominent position near the temporary main entrance of the construction site; 
(2) Each inlet shall  be enclosed and protec ted against corrosion and abuse, with an all-
round clearance of not less than 100 mm between any part of the inlet and the inlet 
enclosure; 
(3) The inlets shall be of a standard pattern accepted by the Director of Fire Services.  The 
centre of inlet couplings shall be not less than 600 mm nor more than 1 000 mm above 
the ground/street level; 
(4) There shall be a non-return valve on the downstream side of each inlet; 
(5) A pressure gauge shall be provided  within the inlet enclosure and shall be connected 
between the downstream side of the inlet and the upstream side of the non-return valve; 
(6) A durable label in English letters and Chinese characters of not less than 10  mm and 
15 mm high respectively for indicating the floor level of the fire pump(s) shall be 
provided at each inlet enclosure; 
(7) Durable signage – ‘TEMPORARY F.S. INLET  / 臨時消防入水掣 ’, lettering of 
which (both English and Chinese) of at least 50 mm high with black in colour on white 
background, shall be fixed at a prominent position adjacent to the inlet in order to 
distinguish the temporary water relaying system  from the permanent fire hydrant 
system not yet in commission, if any; and 
(8) If a permanent fire hydrant system not yet in commission is already installed in the 
building, a blue label tape shall be adhered to its inlet with a notice showing ‘THIS 
INSTALLATION IS NOT READY FOR USE UNTIL THE WORKS ARE 
COMPLETED / 此裝置於工程完成後方可使用’, lettering of which (both English 
and Chinese) of at least 50 mm high with black in colour on yellow background, shall 
be fixed adjacent to such inlet. 
  
                                                      
1 Components of the closed -circuit type water relaying system during construction stage could be reused in the fire 
hydrant / hose reel system required under Section 16(1)(b)(ii) of the Buildings Ordinance, Cap. 123.  
2/4 
 
(b) Riser 
(1) The rising main shall be located at or adjacent to a designated access staircase2; 
(2) The nominal bore of the rising main shall be not less than 80 mm and installed with 
automatic air relief valve(s) wherever applicable; and 
(3) Where fire pump(s) is/are interposed between the F.S. inlet and the hydrant outlets, 
provision shall be made for the water supplied to the i nlet to by-pass such pump(s) in 
the event of failure of the pump(s) and a non-return valve shall be provided for the by-
pass. 
 
(c) Fire Pump 
(1) Electrical fire pump(s) shall be provided to relay water for all floors; 
(2) Durable signage – ‘TEMPORARY F.S. PUMP  / 臨時消防泵’, lettering of which 
(both English and Chinese) of at least 50  mm high with black in colour on white 
background shall be fixed at prominent positions adjacent to each pump; 
(3) The pump set(s) shall be located in a readily accessible location and shall not cause any 
obstruction to the ingress or egress routes of the designated access staircase; 
(4) With the fire appliances boosting water into the F.S.  inlet at a constant pressure of  
800 kPa upstream of the inlet, the fire pump(s) shall be capable of providing adequate 
flow of not less than 900 l/min (i.e. any 2 hydrant outlets each with a flow of 450 l/min 
at a running pressure of not less than 350 kPa but not more than 850 kPa); 
(5) Pump(s) shall be connected to riser by fixed pipelines with a non-return valve installed 
at the discharge side of pump(s); 
(6) Once started, the pump(s) shall run continuously until stopped manually.   Suitable 
start/stop push buttons together with pump status indicator lights and alarm buzzers 
shall be provided adjacent to the F.S. inlet(s).  Clear indications in English and Chinese 
characters ‘TEMPORARY F.S. PUMP CONTROL / 臨時消防泵開關掣 ’ of at least 
5 mm high shall be provided adjacent to the buttons; 
(7) Pump control panel with control switch and indication of operation status for each fire 
pump shall be provided at the pump or its nearby vicinity; and 
(8) All electrical fire pump(s) can be controlled simultaneously by start/stop push buttons 
at the F.S. i nlet of the building  block concerned as well as at the location of pump(s) 
itself. 
 
(d) Fire Hydrant Outlet 
(1) Fire hydrant outlets for the temporary water relaying system shall be provided on every 
stabilized floor except the ground/street level; 
(2) Each outlet shall conform to BS  5041: Part 1.  The outlets shall be of  female 
instantaneous type conforming to BS  336 and shall be individually controlled by 
wheel-operated screw valves  designed to open by counterclockwise rotation.  The 
direction of opening of the valves shall be clearly engraved in both English and Chinese 
on the wheels; 
 
                                                      
2 Provision of closed-circuit type water relaying system is exempted for building block where staircase is not required 
under the Buildings Ordinance, Cap. 123. 
3/4 
 
(3) The outlets shall be fixed at not less than 800 mm or more than 1 200 mm above floor 
level; 
(4) The topmost outlet shall be provided on the topmost level of a designated access 
staircase.  If such provision is not feasible due to constructional constraint, the topmost 
outlet shall be situated at no more than 3 storeys or 30 m below the topmost floor under 
construction, whichever the nearest3; 
(5) Durable signage – ‘TEMPORARY FIRE HYDRANT  / 臨時消防栓’, lettering of 
which (both English and Chinese) of at least 50 mm high with black in colour on white 
background, shall be fixed adjacent to each of the outlets in order to distinguish the 
temporary water relaying system  from the permanent fire hydrant system  not yet in 
commission, if any; and 
(6) If a permanent fire hydrant sy stem not yet in commission is already installed  in the 
building, a blue label tape shall be stick to its outlet with a notice showing ‘THIS 
INSTALLATION IS NOT READY FOR USE UNTIL THE WORKS ARE 
COMPLETED / 此裝置於工程完成後方可使用’ , lettering of which (both English 
and Chinese) of at least 50 mm high with black in colour on yellow background, fixed 
adjacent to each of the hydrant outlets. 
 
(e) Power Supply 
(1) The arrangement of power supply to the water relaying system shall be undertaken by 
Registered Electrical Worker of appropriate grade; 
(2) Each fire pump shall be connected to the normal power  supply from the construction 
site and to a secondary power source; 
(3) If the secondary power source is provided by an external means (e.g. diesel generator 
or enertainer, etc.) other than teed off before the main switch, it shall be capable of 
sustaining full load operation of all fire pump( s) for a period of not less than 6 hours, 
and be capable of supplying power for all fire pump(s) in not more than 15 seconds in 
case of failure of normal power supply; 
(4) The electricity supply shall have enough capacity to cater for the simultaneous 
operation of all fire pump(s) installed  for an individual building block under 
construction; 
(5) The power supply shall be automatically switched to the secondary power source if the 
normal power fails for whatever reason; and 
(6) The use of fire resisting cable for the closed-circuit type water relaying system is highly 
recommended. 
 
Other Fire Protection Measures 
 
(f) Site Fire Hoses and Nozzles 
A minimum of two detachable flexible fire hoses of male and female instantaneous type at 
both ends conforming to BS 336, 70 mm in diameter and minimum 20  m in length and one 
nozzle of male instantaneous type conforming to BS  336 shall be provided at every five 
storeys for the use by fire personnel during emergency.  They shall be placed adjacent to the 
fire hydrant outlets and suitably housed to avoid unnecessary damage or vandalism.  These 
                                                      
3 For example, the topmost hydrant outlet will be situated at the 7th storey of the building under construction when the 
construction height of such building reaches 30 m (e.g. 10 storeys) above ground/street level. 
4/4 
 
housings shall be suitably annotated with both English and Chinese showing  ‘SITE FIRE 
HOSES AND NOZZLE (EMERGENCY USE)  / 工地消防 喉及喉筆（緊急用途 ）’.  
Marking ‘SITE FIRE HOSE / 工地消防喉’ and ‘SITE NOZZLE / 工地喉筆’ shall be 
clearly annotated on the fire hose s and nozzle respectively for easy differentiation as site 
property. 
 
(g) Indications 
(1) Indication signs showing the access to the fire pump(s) shall be displayed at prominent 
positions immediate outside the entrance level of the staircas e(s) and at suitable 
intervals; and 
(2) Floor levels and access staircases shall be clearly numbered and shown at prominent 
positions. 
 
(h) Site Information 
(1) At a prominent position of the construction site entrance,  the following information 
shall be provided: 
(i) The name and 24 -hour contact  telephone number of the building contractor  / 
responsible person supervising the provision of water relaying system; and 
(ii) A block plan showing the general layout of all building blocks and the access 
routes to the entrance of each building. 
 
(2) At a prominent position of each  building entrance, the following information of  such 
building shall be provided: 
(i) Construction status including current construction height and number of storeys, 
floor of fire pump(s) located, quantity of fire pump, etc.; 
(ii) A set of schematic diagram showing the typical arrangements of electricity 
supply to fire pump(s); and 
(iii) A set of layout plan indicating the location(s) of the fire pump(s), F.S. inlet, fire 
hydrant outlet, pump control panel and provision of site fire hoses and nozzles. 
 
(3) Such plans shall be of a minimum A3 size and provided in both English and Chinese. 
 
(i) Lighting 
Adequate lighting shall be provided at the location of the riser, F.S. inlets, fire hydrant outlets, 
fire pumps and control panel as well as the designated access staircases. 
 
(j) Maintenance 
Registered general building contractors / authorized persons of the site shall ensure the fire 
protection measures in high -rise buildings under construction are in good working order at 
all times by conducting regular checking and maintenance. 
 
- End -