-  1  - 
Reference number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
凡 提 及 本 信 時 請 引 述 編 號 及 日 期 
消 防 處 
 
FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
消防安全總區  FIRE SAFETY COMMAND 
香港九龍尖沙咀東康莊道一號  
消防總部大廈七樓  
7th Floor, Fire Services Headquarters Building 
No. 1 Hong Chong Road 
Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon 
Hong Kong 
 
本處檔號  OUR REF : L/M(2) in FSD FSC GR 13 -314/07  V 
來函檔號  YOU R REF :  
圖文傳真  FAX:  (852) 2312 0376  
電  話 TEL . NO.:  (852) 2170 9 670   
電子郵件  E-MAIL:  fschq@hkfsd.gov.hk   
9 December 2024 
To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
FSD Circular Letter No. 5/2024 
Application Procedure for Inspection and Testing of 
Fire Service Installations and Equipment in Premises/Buildings 
under the Fire Safety (Commercial Premises) Ordinance, Cap. 502, 
Fire Safety (Buildings) Ordinance, Cap. 572 and 
Fire Safety (Industrial Buildings) Ordinance, Cap. 636, Laws of Hong Kong 
 
 This circular letter announces the revised application procedure for inspection and 
testing of fire service installations and equipment ( “FSI”) in Premises/Buildings (“target 
premises/buildings”) under the Fire Safety (Commercial Premises) Ordinance, Cap. 502, Fire 
Safety (Buildings) Ordinance, Cap. 572 and Fire Safety (Industrial Buildings) Ordinance, 
Cap. 636, Laws of Hong Kong (hereafter collectively referred to as “Three Ordinances”) with 
effect from 1 January 2025. 
 
 Currently, application for inspection and testing of FSI in target premises/buildings 
under the Three Ordinances  would be submitted by the registered fire service installation 
contractor ( “RFSIC”) using BI/RC Form to certify that the FSI listed therein have been 
installed and tested, and are in efficient working order pursuant to the relevant Codes of 
Practice for M inimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment  and Inspection, Testing and 
Maintenance of Installations and Equipment (“Codes”). 
 
FSI Acceptance Inspection 
 
 Smooth process of FSI acceptance inspection largely hinges on site readiness, 
standard of works and availability of supporting documents.  To ensure all app lications 
could be processed efficiently without unnecessary delay to the statutory inspections, it is 
imperative that RFSICs should ensure the site and system readiness, prepare all necessary and 
valid documentation for verification, complete comprehensiv e testing and commissioning of 
FSI and if necessary, arrange rectification of defects at the soonest possible. 
 
…/2 

-  2  - 
Reference number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
凡 提 及 本 信 時 請 引 述 編 號 及 日 期 
Revised Application Procedure 
 
 To facilitate the application process, as well as to specify clearly the respective 
areas of professiona l responsibility of RFSIC engaged in the process, th is Department  has 
revised the application procedure and the extant application form into BI/RC  Form (Rev.2024) 
and BI/RC/a. 
 
Responsibilities of RFSIC under the Revised Arrangement 
 
 All applications for inspection and testing of FSI in target premises/buildings 
should be tendered by a  RFSIC.  Before submitting application , the RFSIC  is required to 
ensure that all FSI to be inspected and tested are adequately covered by BI/RC/a.  In addition, 
the incorporated owners, owners, owners’ representative, occupiers or occupiers’ 
representative of the target premises/buildings should indicate their knowledge at Part B of 
BI/RC Form (Rev.2024) that the relevant FSIs are ready for inspection. 
 
 Under the new arrangement, whenever RFSICs install any FSI in target premises/  
buildings, they shall certify that the FSI listed therein have been installed and tested, and are 
in efficient working order in accordance with the Codes by signing the BI/RC/a.  The signed 
BI/RC/a is a certificate under Regulation 9 of the Fire Service (Installat ions and Equipment) 
Regulations (Cap. 95B) which shall be issued by the RFSIC within 14 days after completion 
of the work to the person on whose instructions the work was undertaken with a copy thereof 
forwarded to the Director of Fire Services. 
 
 The new arrangement also applies for fixed automatically operated approved 
appliance and portable hand-operated approved appliance (“portable equipment”) such as fire 
extinguisher, for which the equipment should be certified by Class 3 RFSIC via separated 
BI/RC/a.  Certificate of Fire Service Installations and Equipment (F.S.  251) is no longer  
required for the FSI under the Three Ordinances  in target premises/buildings.  Nonetheless, 
the statutory requirements by virtue of Cap. 95B and the relevant Codes (e.g. provision of 
maintenance label on portable extinguishers) remains unchanged. 
 
Annual Inspection of FSI 
 
 Last but not least, RFSIC should remind FSI owners that all FSI shall be inspected 
by a  RFSIC at least once in every 12 months after the date of issuance of the letter of 
compliance. 
 
 The B I/RC Form (Rev.2024), BI/RC/a, “Specime n of Completed Form”  and the 
FSI Eq uipment List  are att ached for retention.  You may also wish to download the se 
documents from the FSD’s webpage. 
 
URL: https://www.hkfsd.gov.hk/eng/enquiry/download/download_572_502/index.html 
 
…/3 
-  3  - 
Reference number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
凡 提 及 本 信 時 請 引 述 編 號 及 日 期 
 
 Should you need further amplification , please conta ct Fire Services Department 
Building Improvement Support Centre at 2272 9112. 
 
 
Yours faithfully, 
 
 
 
 
( LEUNG Wai-lok ) 
for Director of Fire Services 
Encl.