消 防 處 
消 防 安 全 總 區 
 
香港 九龍尖沙咀東康莊道一號 
消防 處總部大廈七樓  
  
 
FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
FIRE SAFETY COMMAND 
 
7/F, Fire Services Headquarters Building 
1 Hong Chong Road, Tsim Sha Tsui East 
Kowloon, Hong Kong 
 
 
 
本處檔號  OUR REF. : (11) in FSD FSC GR 13-314/07 V 
來函檔案 YOUR REF. : 
圖文傳真 FAX NO. : (852) 2312 0376 
電  話  TEL. NO. : (852) 2170 9670 
電子郵件 E-MAIL : fschq@hkfsd.gov.hk 
 
 26 June 2025 
 
 
To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
FSD Circular Letter No. 2/2025 
Fire Safety Requirements for Data Centres 
 
This Circular Letter serves to announce the new requirements for data centres in the 
Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment, September 2022  
(“FSI Code”). 
 
Given the increasing demand for data centres , it is imperative  to introduce a new 
classification of premises, i.e., data centre, in the FSI Code.  Subsequent to a comprehensive 
review with the engagement of professional bodies, trades and government departments, this  
new classification together with associated requirements w ill be included in relevant 
paragraphs of the FSI Code with effect from 1 August 2025.  Please see the enclosed 
amendment sheet for details. 
 
 For the avoidance of doubt , the following types of building plans received by this 
Department on or after the effective date shall demonstrate the compliance of  the new 
requirements:  
 
(i) new submission of building plans for new building; and  
(ii) new submission of building plans for existing building of which not less than 
one half measured by volume is rebuilt or which is altered to such an extent as 
to necessitate the reconstruction of not less than one half of the superficial area 
of the main walls, or where a new occupation permit shall be issued.  
 
 
 
…/2 

   
 
1 
 
Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment 
(September 2022) 
 
Amendment Sheet Serial No. 2/2025 
 
 
 
(1) Insert definition of “Data Centre” in paragraph 3.1: 
  
 “Data Centre” means  
Premises used for data processing services but exclude activities involving direct 
provision of customer services, retail services or goods, which often attract a 
large number of visiting members of the public to the premises. 
 
 
(2) Insert a new classification of premises in CLASSIFICATION OF PREMISES 
AND AREAS OF SPECIAL RISKS in PART IV and re -number the following 
CLASSIFICATION OF PREMISES AND AREAS OF SPECIAL RISKS: 
  
4.21 Data Centres 
4.22  Domestic Buildings—Low Rise (up to and including 3 storeys in height) 
4.23  Domestic Buildings—Low Rise (over 3 storeys in height) 
4.24  Domestic Buildings—High Rise 
4.25 Consumer Electrical Equipment: incorporating transformers, switchgear, 
generators/alternators requiring separate installations 
4.26 Explosive Production and/or storages 
4.27  Garages 
4.28  Hotels—Low Rise 
4.29  Hotels—High Rise 
4.30  Industrial/Godown Buildings—Low Rise 
4.31  Industrial/Godown Buildings—High Rise 
4.32 Institutional Buildings—Low Rise 
4.33  Institutional Buildings—High Rise 
4.34  Kitchens (other than kitchens in domestic premises) 
4.35  Lift Motor Rooms 
4.36  Lifts not Discharging to Protected Means of Escape 
4.37  Mechanical Plant Rooms (Group I)  
4.38  Mechanical Plant Rooms (Group II)  
4.39  Passenger Terminals/Stations 
4.40  Petro-chemical Complexes 
4.41  Railway Marshalling Yards 
4.42  Refuge Floors 
4.43  Road Tunnels 
 
 
2 
 
4.44  Shipyards  
4.45  Substation/Switchgear Buildings 
4.46 Telephone distri bution equipment, computer installation and similar 
installations 
 
 
(3) Insert the following FSI into the REQUIREMENTS section of paragraph 4.21 with: 
 
(i) Automatic actuating devices 
(ii) Automatic fixed installation other than water 
(iii) Emergency generator 
(iv) Emergency lighting 
(v) Exit sign 
(vi) Fire alarm system 
(vii) Fire control centre 
(viii) Fire detection system 
(ix) Fire hydrant/hose reel system 
(x) Fireman’ s lift 
(xi) Portable hand-operated approved appliance 
(xii) Sprinkler system 
(xiii) Ventilation/air conditioning control system 
 
 
(4) Insert the following sub-paragraphs into the EXTENT section of paragraph 4.21: 
 
(i) As required by that equipment which needs to be automatically actuated. 
(ii) To be provided to areas where the use of w ater is undesirable for the 
occupancy or trade. 
(iii) An independently powered generator of sufficient electrical capacity to 
meet the fire service installations and fireman’ s lifts it is required to 
provide. 
(iv) Emergency lighting shall be provided thr oughout the entire building and 
all exit routes leading to ground level. 
(v) Sufficient directional and exit signs to ensure that all exit routes from any 
floor within the building are clearly indicated as required by the 
configuration of staircases serving the building. 
(vi) One actuating point and one audio warning device to be located at each 
hose reel point. Visual alarm signals shall be provided where necessary in 
accordance with current Design Manual: Barrier Free Access. This 
actuating point shall include facilities for fire pump start and audio/visual 
warning device initiation. 
 
 
 
3 
 
(vii) Minimum of one, additional to be provided according to the complexity of 
the building. 
(viii) To be provided in areas not covered by automatic fixed installations. 
(ix) There shall be sufficient hydrants and hose reels on each floor. Fire 
hydrants shall be provided in all approach lobbies to required staircases or 
required staircase enclosures. For buildings not having the required 
staircase, fire hydrants shall be provided to the satisfaction of the Director 
of Fire Services. Hose reels shall be provided to ensure that every part of 
the premises can be reached by a length of not more than 30 m of hose reel 
tubing. 
(x) As required by the Code of Practice for Fire Safety in Buildings. 
(xi) As required by occupancy. 
(xii) Required for data centres  with total floor areas exceeding 230 square 
metres and to cover all parts of the data centres  including staircases, 
common corridors and toilets. 
(xiii) When a ventilation /air conditioning control system to a building is 
provided, it shall stop mechanically induced air movement within a 
designated fire compartment. 
 
 
(5) Insert the following sub- paragraphs into the ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS 
section of paragraph 4.21: 
  
(i) All l inings for acoustic and thermal insulation purposes in ductings and 
concealed locations shall be of Class 1 or 2 Rate of Surface Spread of 
Flame as per British Standard 476: Part 7 or its international equivalent, 
or be brought up to that standard by use o
f an approved fire retardant 
product. 
(ii) All linings for acoustic, thermal insulation and decorative purposes within 
protected means of escape shall be of Class 1 or 2 Rate of Surface Spread 
of Flame as per British Standard 476: Part 7 or its international 
equivalent, or be brought up to that standard by use of an approved fire 
retardant product. 
(iii) Any intended storage or use of dangerous goods as defined in Chapter 295 
of the Laws of Hong Kong should be notified to the Director of Fire 
Services. 
  
 
 
 
- End -