消 防 處 
消 防 安 全 總 區 
 
香港九龍尖沙咀東康莊道一號 
消防 處總部大廈七樓  
  
 
FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
FIRE SAFETY COMMAND 
 
7/F, Fire Services Headquarters Building 
1 Hong Chong Road, Tsim Sha Tsui East 
Kowloon, Hong Kong 
 
 
 
本處檔號  OUR REF. : (12) in FSD FSC GR 13-314/07 V 
來函檔案 YOUR REF. : 
圖文傳真 FAX NO. : (852) 2312 0376 
電  話  TEL. NO. : (852) 2170 9670 
電子郵件 E-MAIL : fschq@hkfsd.gov.hk 
 
 26 June 2025 
 
 
To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters 
 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
 
FSD Circular Letter No. 3/2025 
Fire Safety Requirements for Battery Rooms and Electrical Charging Facilities 
(“BRECF”) 
 
This Circular Letter serves to announce the revised requirements for BRECF in the 
Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment, Septe mber 2022  
(“FSI Code”). 
 
With high energy density and charging efficiency, lithium -ion (“Li-ion”) batteries 
are commonly used in secondary power supply.  A comprehensive review with the 
engagement of  professional bodies, trades and government departments w as therefore 
conducted to identify the hazard and potential damage caused by Li-ion battery fire in BRECF.  
With a view to addressing  the associated fire risks arising from the use of Li -ion batteries in 
BRECF, “Automatic fixed installation using water” w ould be included as one of the 
requirements for BRECF with effect from 1 August 2025.  Please see  the enclosed  
amendment sheet for details. 
 
 For the avoidance of doubt , the following types of building plans received by this 
Department on or after the effective date shall demonstrate the compliance of  the revised 
requirements:  
 
(i) new submission of building plans for new building; and  
(ii) new submission of building plans for existing building of which not less than 
one half measured by volume is rebuilt or which is altered to such an extent as 
to necessitate the reconstruction of not less than one half of the superficial area 
of the main walls, or where a new occupation permit shall be issued.  
 
…/2 

   
 
1 
 
Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment 
(September 2022) 
 
Amendment Sheet Serial No. 3/2025 
 
 
(1) Insert “Automatic fixed installation using water” into the REQUIREMENTS 
section of paragraph 4.5 Battery rooms and electrical charging facilities  and 
re-number the following REQUIREMENTS: 
 
(i) Automatic fixed installation other than water 
(ii) Automatic fixed installation using water 
(iii) Exit sign 
(iv) Fire alarm system 
(v) Fire detection system 
(vi) Gas extraction system 
(vii) Portable hand-operated approved appliance 
(viii) Ventilation/air conditioning control system 
 
 
(2) Insert the following sub-paragraph into the EXTENT section of paragraph 4.5 and 
re-number the following EXTENT: 
 
(i) To be provided to the fire compartment  not protected by “Automatic 
fixed installation using water”. 
(ii) To be provided to the fire compartment containing lithium-ion batteries 
with a capacity in excess of 20 kWh. 
Note: (a) Lithium-ion batteries with a capacity of over 600kWh in a fire 
compartment requires individual consideration by the Director of 
Fire Services. 
(b) For fire compartment containing lithium-ion batteries with  a 
capacity not exceeding  20 kWh  or other types of batteries  
regardless of capacity , provision of “Automatic fixed installation 
using water” is strongly encouraged, though not mandatory. 
(iii) Sufficient directional and exit signs t o ensure that all exit routes from 
any floor within the premises are clearly indicated as required by the 
configuration of staircase serving the building. 
(iv) One actuating point and one audio warning device to be located at all 
exit doorways. Visual alarm signals shall be provided where necessary in 
accordance with current Design Manual: Barrier Free Access. This 
actuating point shall include facilities for audio/visual warning device 
initiation. 
 
 
2 
 
(v) To be provided in areas not covered by automatic fixed installations. 
(vi) Approved type for the part of building where flammable vapours may be 
generated, and to reduce the concentration below its lower explosive 
limit. 
(vii) As required by occupancy. 
(viii) When a ventilation/air conditioning control sy stem to a building is 
provided, it shall stop mechanically induced air movement within a 
designated fire compartment. 
 
- End -