5J!j ~Jj ~ 
5J!j ISJj !:Ji: ~ !! ~ 
~ ;t!i JL ~ ~ ;y D_§_ * ~ jff ill: - 5Jn 
5ti ~n ~-~ 15~ * M -1:: tt 
FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
FIRE SAFETY COMMAND 
71h Floor, Fire Services Headquarters Building 
No. 1 Hong Chong Road 
Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon 
Hong Kong . 
:;fi:Jitffl:M OUR REF: ( 15) in FSD FSC GR 13-314/07 V 
*wm:M YOUR REF: 
i))(,$1{ FAX: (852) 2312 0376 
11 l$ TEL. NO.: (852) 2272 9112 
30 April 2026 
To: Recipients ofFSD Circular Letters 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
FSD Circular Letter No. 3/2026 
Acceptance of Internet of Things Fire Detection System and 
Portable Fire Extinguishers as an Alternative Solution 
to the Statutory Requirements for Hose Reel and Manual Fire Alarm Systems 
in Target Buildings of 6-storey or below regulated under 
the Fire Safety (Buildings) Ordinance, Cap. 572 
This Circular Letter serves to announce, with immediate effect, the acceptance of 
Internet of Things ("IoT") Fire Detection System ("FDS") and portable fire extinguishers as 
an alternative solution to the statutory requirements for hose reel and manual fire alarm 
systems in composite and domestic buildings of 6-storey or below, regulated under the Fire 
Safety (Buildings) Ordinance, Cap. 572 ("Ordinance"). 
Background 
The Ordinance has been implemented to enhance the fire safety standards of 
composite and domestic buildings constructed on or before March 1987 ("target buildings"). 
The Fire Services Department ("FSD") has been actively promoting fire safety improvement 
works and introducing facilitation measures to assist building owners in complying with 
statutory requirements. Despite these efforts, practical challenges related to coordination, 
spatial constraints, and financial limitation have been encountered. 
In light of technological developments in Chinese Mainland and overseas, the FSD 
has conducted a series of comprehensive scientific evaluations on the application of IoT 
technologies in fire detection systems. With fruitful findings, a Pilot Scheme on IoT FDS 
was launched in the fourth quarter of 2025 to assess the feasibility and effectiveness of the 
system in 10 selected target buildings of 6-storey or below across the territory. During the 
trial period in the first quarter of 2026, the IoT FDS in these buildings demonstrated reliable 
performance, with no false alarm recorded and stable operation. The overall results were 
satisfactory and met expectations. 
. . ./2 
Reference number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
fL m & * m ~ ID1i sl ifil ~ ~ & B M 
- 2 -
Existing Requirements for Fire Service Installation and Equipment 
Under the Ordinance, owners and/or occupiers of target buildings of 6-storey or 
below are required to comply with the following requirements: 
Fire Service 
Installations and Equipment 
Automatic S rinkler System 
Hose Reel System 
Manual Fire Alarm System 
Automatic cut-off device for Mechanical 
Ventilating System (common areas) 
Non-domestic 
Portion of 
Composite Building 
Owner 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
✓ 
Automatic cut-off device for Mechanical ✓ 
Ventilating System (non-common areas) 
Domestic 
Portion of 
Composite 
Building 
Domestic 
Building 
Note: *applicable to a composite building in which the total floor areas of the non-domestic 
portion exceeds 230m 2 
For the avoidance of doubt, the provision of an IoT FDS and portable fire 
extinguishers merely serves as an alternative solution to fulfil the requirements for hose reel 
and manual fire alarm systems, all other applicable requirements under the Ordinance remain 
unchanged. 
Mai or Components of the IoT FDS 
The IoT FDS comprises both fire service installation and equipment ("FSI") 
components and non-FSI components, incorporating several key elements for fire detection, 
signal transmission, and system monitoring. The major components include: 
FSI components 
1. Multi-sensor Detectors 
Multi-sensor detectors shall be installed within individual units and common areas for early 
fire detection. These detectors are capable of detecting smoke and carbon monoxide, 
enhancing detection capability while minimizing false alarms. 
2. Gateways 
Sufficient number of gateways, incorporating manual call points, alarm sounders and signal 
transmission facilities, shall be provided in common areas. Signal from multi-sensor 
detectors are transmitted to the gateways via localized wireless communication method and 
subsequently relayed to the IoT FDS service provider's monitoring platform through an 
external communication network. To ensure the reliability of external communication, dual 
SIM cards covering different external communication networks shall be provided. 
. . ./3 
Reference number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
JL m & :it;: w ~ ID'i <ii W Iii st,1£ & B Wl 
- 3 
Non-FSI components 
3. Monitoring Platform 
A monitoring platform, provided and operated by the IoT FDS service provider, receives and 
processes signals transmitted from gateways, monitors system status and transmits fire alarm 
signals to the Fire Services Communications Centre ("FSCC") via the Computerized Fire 
Alarm Transmission System ("CFATS") to enable timely FSD intervention. All signals 
received by the monitoring platform shall also be sent to the FSD's server through an 
Application Programming Interface ("API") for monitoring and supervision purposes. 
4. Mobile application 
A mobile application shall be provided to the FSD by the IoT FDS service provider to support 
operational use by frontline firefighters, enabling access to system information and authorized 
control functions at the incident scene. 
Provision of Portable fire extinguishers 
At least two numbers of 5 kg powder-type portable fire extinguisher shall be 
provided on each floor of the target buildings for occupants to operate in the event of a fire. 
Operating Principles and Demarcation of Statutory Responsibilities of the IoT FDS 
The operating principles and demarcation of statutory responsibilities of the IoT 
FDS are illustrated in the diagram below. 
Localized wireless 
communication 
Multi-sensor detectors /\ 
(inside unit) / 
~ 
Multi-sensor detectors 
( common area) 
RFSIC 
Gateway 
with manual 
call points 
and alarm 
sounders 
(with dual 
SIM cards) 
~---~ 
1 E xternal 
j communication 
network FSD Server API 
•:::::::::::::············· ........ _ .................................... ~~~ 
Monitoring 
Platform 
App 
CFATS 
Circuits and/or 
4G /5G network 
Service provider of the CF A TS 
Reference number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
fL ~ -.& ;t;: {~ ~ w1f sl :lltt ti 5J1t -.& a WJ 
t\ 
! i \ FSCC ! • : 
Circuits 
.. ./4 
- 4 -
Operating Principles 
Sufficient multi-sensor detectors shall be installed near the entrance(s) inside each 
unit, as well as in common areas on each floor. Upon detection of fire or actuation of manual 
call point, the alarm will sound to alert the building occupants to evacuate, and a fire alarm 
signal would be transmitted to a nearby gateway via a localized wireless communication 
network. 
The gateway will then forward the fire alarm signal to the monitoring platform via 
an external communication network. The platform will receive and process relevant 
information, including the location of fire, status of the activated device, etc., and will 
duplicate the information to the FSD's server through API for system monitoring and 
supervision. 
Fire alarm signal will then be automatically transmitted from the monitoring 
platform to the FSCC through CFATS for mobilization of firefighting and rescue resources, 
enabling timely intervention by the FSD. Upon arrival at the scene, firefighters will use the 
mobile application to access and control the system. 
Duties and Responsibilities 
lo T FDS generally comprises components that fall under the management and 
ownership of different stakeholders. While the service provider of the loT FDS is 
responsible for overall coordination, the duties and responsibilities are generally demarcated 
as follows: 
(A) Registered Fire Service Installation Contractor ("RFSIC") 
The RFSIC shall be responsible for the installation, maintenance, inspection, and 
repair of FSI components of lo T FDS installed in the protected premises. 
(B) Service Provider of the CF A TS 
The service provider of the CFATS shall provide and maintain the communication 
network services, to receive alarm signals from loT FDS at protected premises installed in 
accordance with this Circular Letter, process and send the alarm signals to the FSD in a prompt 
and reliable manner. 
Lists of Service Providers for loT FDS 
To facilitate owners in selecting suitable service provider(s), the FSD will shortly 
publish a list of "Service Providers interested in providing loT FDS Services" for public 
reference. 
. . ./5 
Reference number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
fL m & ;zjs: w ~ ID1 ~I ~ fi 5/JE & B M 
- 5 -
For enquiries relating to IoT FDS or the relevant application procedures, please 
approach the FSD Building Improvement Support Centre at 2272 9112 (email: 
fsdbisc@hkfsd.gov.hk). 
Yours faithfully, 
t l • ~ L -'l _ .. 
( Y Karri-hurfg, Michael ) 
I 
for Director 'of Fire Services 
/ ' 
Reference number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter 
fL m & * ra ~ m sr ;it • ~ &. a wi 
I 
/