5Jlj ~jj ~ FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT 
5Jli ~Ji !Ji ~ l! ~ FIRE SAFETY COMMAND 
7/F, Fire Services Headquarters Building ~ ~ :tL ta ~ ;j,> □11 *~ if m: - ~ 1 Hong Chong Road , Tsim Sha Tsui East 
>J!J BE ~ ~,~,fiB *JJ'.-t:: W Kowloon, Hong Kong 
;zjs: ~fj ~ OUR REF. (13) in FSD FSC GR 13-314/07 V 
*P.i5J m ~ YOUR REF . 
~ X: 1$ Ji FAX NO. (852) 2312 0376 
~ ~ TEL. NO. (852) 2170 9670 
~ r !liBfcj= E-MAIL fschq@hkfsd.gov.hk 
29 May 2026 
To: Recipients of FSD Circular Letters 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
FSD Circular Letter No. 5/2026 
Fire Safety Requirements for Car Parking Facilities with 
Automated Parking System (APS) 
This Circular Letter announces the revised requirements for car parking facilities in 
the Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment, September 2022 
("FSI Code"). 
Given the increasing demand for APS, a comprehensive study with the engagement of 
professional bodies, trades and government departments was conducted to examine the 
potential fire risks associated with car parking facilities with APS. With a view to ensuring 
fire safety, a set of revised requirements have been formulated for incorporating into relevant 
sections of the FSI Code accordingly. Please see the enclosed amendment sheet for details. 
The amendments shall take effect from 1 July 2026. For the avoidance of doubt, 
the following types of building plans received by this Department on or after the effective date 
shall demonstrate the compliance of the revised requirements: 
(i) new submission of building plans for new building; and 
(ii) new submission of building plans for existing building of which not less than one 
half measured by volume is rebuilt or which is altered to such an extent as to 
necessitate the reconstruction of not less than one half of the superficial area of 
the main walls, or where a new occupation permit shall be issued. 
REF . N UMB E R A N D DAT E SHOULD B E Q U OT E D I N REF E RE NCE TO THIS L E TT E R 
J-L t!i'. & ;t,: 1/ai H1f iii'/ 'J I i!tt t.i ~Ji & 1:1 WJ 
.../2 
- 2 -
Notwithstanding the above, voluntary compliance with the revised requirements is 
strongly encouraged. For addition/alteration of fire service installations and equipment in 
existing buildings according to the revised requirements, please follow the extant procedures in 
seeking formal approval. 
For enquiries, please contact Senior Divisional Officer (New Projects) at 3971 4600. 
'/
I 
(l ,/ / L I '-· 
)(am hkg , Michael) 
l 
for Dit~ctor of Fire Services , I 
V 
I 
Encl. 
R EF NUM B E R AN D D ATE S HO U LD B E QU OT E D I N R EF E R E NCE TO THI S LE TT ER 
fL ~ R. ,t,: /"ff II# Iii s l lllt !oi '}Ji R. El WJ 
Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment 
(September 2022) 
Amendment Sheet Serial No. 5/2026 
(1) Paragraph 1. 6 is revised to read: 
1.6 Design of access staircase, fireman's lift, firefighting and rescue stairway and 
emergency vehicular access 
The access staircase, fireman's lift, firefighting and rescue stairway and emergency 
vehicular access shall be provided to every building in accordance with Reg. 4JA, 41 B, 41 C and 
4lD of the Building (Planning) Regulations. Whilst the requirements for access staircase, 
fireman's lift and fire fighting and rescue stairway are included in this Code, they should not be 
considered as fire service installations within the meaning of paragraph 1.2 above. 
(2) Paragraph 1. 7 is revised to read: 
1.7 Provision of access walkways I stairs, closed circuit television system, emergency power 
points, fireman's communication system, fireman's emergency switch and pedestrian cross 
over facility 
(3) Insert definition of "Automated Parking System" in paragraph 3 .1 Definitions: 
"Automated Parking System" includes 
(a) Automated Guided Vehicle System 
(b) Mechanized Vehicle Parking System as defined under the "Lifts and Escalators 
Ordinance" (Cap 618) 
(4) The following FSis in the "REQUIREMENTS-SYSTEMS/INST ALLA TI ONS/EQUIPMENT 
FOR" section of paragraph 4.9 Car ports are revised to read: 
{jl Closed circuit television system 
{iil Emergency generator 
(iii) Emergency lighting 
{M.Exit sign 
{El Fire alarm system 
fJ!.il. Fire control centre 
(vii) Fire detection system 
(viii) Fire hydrant/hose reel system 
(ix) Fireman's communication system 
~ Fireman's emergency switch 
(xi) Fireman's lift 
(xii) Portable hand-operated approved appliance 
(xiii) Sprinkler system 
L. 
1/5 
(5) The following sub-paragraphs in the "EXTENT" section of paragraph 4.9 Car ports are revised 
to read: 
{jJ. To be provided to encompass the entire floor, including means ofaccess and means ofescape, 
for car ports installed with automated parking system. 
{jj)_ To he provided for car ports installed with mechanized vehicle parking system. An 
independently powered generator of sufficient electrical capacity to meet the fire service 
installations and fireman's lifts it is required to provide. 
(iii) Emergency lighting shall be provided throughout all public areas and exit routes leading to 
ground level. 
(iJ!J. Sufficient directional and exit signs to ensure that all exit routes from premises within the 
building are clearly indicated as required by the configuration of staircases serving the building. 
!J!l As required by the risk. If required, one actuating point and one audio warning device to be 
located at each hose reel point. Visual alarm signals shall be provided where necessary in 
accordance with current Design Manual: Barrier Free Access. This actuating point shall 
include facilities for fire pump start and audio/visual warning device initiation. 
frll. To be provided for car ports installed with mechanized vehicle parking system. Minimum of 
one, additional to he provided according to the complexity ofthe building. 
(vii) Heat detectors or multi-sensor detectors shall be provided: 
(a) in entire car ports with a total floor area not exceeding 230m 2 installed with electric vehicle 
charging facilities but not covered by sprinkler system; or 
(b) in car parking areas installed with electric vehicle charging facilities of car ports with a 
total floor area exceeding 230m 2 but not covered by sprinkler system. 
A direct line connection to the Fire Services Communications Centre is not required if the car 
ports are situated in domestic buildings where the provision of direct line connection is not 
mandatorily required. 
(viii) As required by the risk. 
(ix) As required by the Director ofFire Services for car ports installed with mechanized vehicle 
parking system. 
{s. To be provided for car ports installed with automated parking system and/or electric vehicle 
charging facilities. The switch shall be provided at vehicle entrances, fire control centre or 
other locations as considered acceptable by the Director of Fire Services. 
(xi) As required by the Code of Practice for Fire Safety in Buildings. 
(xii) As required by the risk. For car ports installed with electric vehicle charging facilities, 
additional dry powder or carbon dioxide type fire extinguisher shall be provided at each hose 
reel point on the floors with electric vehicle charging facilities. 
(xiii) Required for car ports with total floor area exceeding 230m 2 and to cover all parts o(the car 
ports including the staircases leading to these car ports. Fast response type sprinkler heads 
shall he used in all parts ofthe car ports with mechanized vehicle parking system. 
Note: (i) Carports within buildings shall conform to the requirements specified for those buildings 
in accordance with this Code . 
(ii) The additional requirements for car ports installed with electric vehicle charging facilities 
as stipulated in para. 0!.Jl, :! & ~ above shall not be applicable to the car port of a single­
family domestic building up to and including three storeys in height. 
2/5 
(6) The following sub-paragraphs in the ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT section ofparagraph 4.9 
Car ports are revised to read: 
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT~ 
ill Any intended storage or use ofdangerous goods as defined in Chapter 295 ofthe Laws ofHong 
Kong should be notified to the Director of Fire Services. 
{jjl For car ports installed with mechanized vehicle parking system: 
fill Access staircase as stipulated in the Code ofPractice for Fire Safetv in Buildings shall 
be provided and such staircase should have a clear width ofnot less than 1 050 mm and 
a clear headroom of not less than 2 000 mm with Fire Resistance Rating (FRR) of not 
less than that required for the elements of construction. There shall be at least one 
access staircase for every 60 m ofany part ofthe car ports. 
@ Access walkways I stairs ofnot less than 800 mm in width and not less than 2 000 mm in 
height with guard railing are required to be provided to ensure safe and unobstructed 
access for fireman to reach at least one side ofeach vehicle, preferably close to the front 
portion of vehicle. Such walkways I stairs shall be connected to a protected lobby and 
access staircase and have a stabilitv of not less than that required for the elements of 
construction. 
fil Non-perforated and non-combustible materials shall be provided between the upper and 
lower vehicle parking decks as fire separation facilities to prevent vertical radiation 
transmission, vertical fire spread and burning running fuel spread. For a non-sprinkler­
protected car port, the materials shall have a stabilitv FRR ofnot less than 60 minutes. 
(iii) For car ports installed with automated guided vehicle system, an automatic halting function 
to suspend all the machinery movement ofthe automated guided vehicles upon actuation of 
fire alarm system shall be provided. 
(7) The following FSis in the "REQUIREMENTS-SYSTEMS /INSTALLATIONS/EQUIPMENT 
FOR" section of paragraph 4.27 Garages are revised to read: 
ill Automatic actuating devices 
{jjl Closed circuit television system 
(iii) Emergency generator 
ful Emergency lighting 
6!1.Exit sign 
fril. Fire alarm system 
(vii) Fire control centre 
(viii) Fire detection system 
(ix) Fire hydrant/hose reel system 
fs.. Fireman's communication system 
(xi) Fireman's emergency switch 
(xii) Fireman's lift 
(xiii) Portable hand-operated approved appliance 
(xiv) Sprinkler system 
(xv) Static or dynamic smoke extraction system 
(xvi) Ventilation/air conditioning control system 
3/5 
(8) The following sub-paragraphs in the EXTENT section of paragraph 4.27 Garages are revised to 
read: 
{j)_ As required by that equipment which needs to be automatically actuated. 
@Tobe provided to encompass the entire floor, including means ofaccess and means ofescape, 
for garages installed with automated parking system. 
(iii) To be provided for garages installed with mechanized vehicle parking system. An 
independently powered generator of sufficient electrical capacity to meet the fire service 
installations and fireman's lifts it is required to provide. 
ilil_ Emergency lighting shall be provided throughout the premises and all exit routes. 
6!J. Sufficient directional and exit signs to ensure that all exit routes from the premises within the 
building are clearly indicated as required by the configuration ofstaircases serving the building. 
b!il One actuating point and one audio warning device to be located at each hose reel point. Visual 
alarm signals shall be provided where necessary in accordance with current Design Manual: 
Barrier Free Access. This actuating point shall include facilities for fire pump start and 
audio/visual warning device initiation within the premises. 
(vii) To be provided for garages installed with mechanized vehicle parking system. Minimum of 
one, additional to be provided according to the complexity ofthe building. 
(viii) Heat dete.ctors or multi-sensor detectors shall be provided in entire garage with a total floor 
area not exceeding 230m 2 installed with electric vehicle charging facilities but not covered by 
sprinkler system. A direct line connection to the Fire Services Communications Centre is not 
required if the garages are situated in domestic buildings where the provision of direct line 
connection is not mandatorily required. 
(ix) There shall be sufficient hydrants and hose reels on each floor. Fire hydrants shall be provided 
in all approach lobbies to required staircases or required staircase enclosures. For buildings 
not having the required staircase, fire hydrants shall be provided to the satisfaction of the 
Director of Fire Services. Hose reels shall be provided to ensure that every part ofthe premises 
can be reached by a length of not more than 30 m of hose reel tubing. 
[MAs required by the Director ofFire Services for garages installed with mechanized vehicle 
parking system. 
(xi) To be provided for garages installed with automated parking system and/or electric vehicle 
charging facilities. The switch shall be provided at vehicle entrances, fire control centre or 
other locations as considered acceptable by the Director of Fire Services. 
(xii) As required by the Code of Practice for Fire Safety in Buildings. 
(xiii) As required by the risk. For garages installed with electric vehicle charging facilities, 
additional dry powder or carbon dioxide type fire extinguisher shall be provided at each hose 
reel point on the floors with electric vehicle charging facilities. 
(xiv) Required for garages with total floor areas exceeding 230 square metres and to cover all parts 
of the garages including the staircases leading to these garages. Fast response type sprinkler 
heads shall be used in all parts o{the garages with mechanized vehicle parking system. 
4/5 
(xv) Required for any fire compartment exceeding 7 000 cubic metres in that garage with 
mechanized vehicle parking system where the aggregate area of open able windows of the 
compartment does not exceed 6.25% ofthe floor area o[that compartment. 
The requirement ofhot smoke test will be stipulated ifconsidered necessary by the Director 
ofFire Services in the building plans involving compartments:-
(gJ. with headroom of12 m or more; or 
@ with irregular geometrical dimensions or extraordinary large size. 
(xvi) When a ventilation/air conditioning control system to a building is provided, it shall stop 
mechanically induced air movement within a designated fire compartment. 
Note: The additional requirements for garage installed with electric vehicle charging facilities as 
stipulated in para. ( viii, xi & xiii) above shall not be applicable to the garage of a single-family 
domestic building up to and including three storeys in height, except a garage situated in 
basement. 
(9) The following sub-paragraphs in the ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT section of paragraph 
4.27 Garages are revised to read: 
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT~ 
{jJ. Any intended storage or use of dangerous goods as defined in Chapter 295 ofthe Laws of Hong 
Kong should be notified to the Director of Fire Services. 
{ll)_ For garages installed with mechanized vehicle parking systems: 
(a) Access staircase as stipulated in the Code ofPractice for Fire Safety in Buildings shall 
be provided and such staircase should have a clear width ofnot less than 1 050 mm and 
a clear headroom ofnot less than 2 000 mm with Fire Resistance Rating (FRR) ofnot 
less than that required for the elements of construction. There shall be at least one 
access staircase for every 60 m ofany part ofthe garages. 
(b) Access walkways I stairs ofnot less than 800 mm in width and not less than 2 000 mm in 
height with guard railing are required to be provided to ensure safe and unobstructed 
access for fireman to reach at least one side ofeach vehicle, preferably close to the front 
\ 
portion of vehicle. Such walkways I stairs shall be connected to a protected lobby and 
access staircase and have a stability of not less than that required for the elements of 
construction. 
(c) Non-perforated and non-combustible materials shall be provided between the upper and 
lower vehicle parking decks as fire separation facilities to prevent vertical radiation 
transmission, vertical fire spread and burning running fuel spread. For a non-sprinkler­
protected garage, the materials shall have a stability FRR ofnot less than 60 minutes. 
(iii) For garages installed with automated guided vehicle system, an automatic halting function 
to suspend all the machinery movement ofthe automated guided vehicles upon actuation of 
fire alarm system shall be provided. 
-End-
5/5