                       消 防 處                                                                FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
                      防 火 總 區                                                               FIRE PROTECTION COMMAND
               香港九龍尖沙咀東部康莊道 1 號 5 樓                                                           FIRE SERVICES HEADQUARTERS BUILDING,
                           消防總部大廈                                                                     No. 1 Hong Chong Road, 5/F.,
                                                                                                      Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon,
                                                                                                              Hong Kong

本處檔號 Our Ref.:             (61) in FPB 314/07 III
來函檔號 Your Ref.:

電訊掛號 Telex: 39607 HKFSD

HX
                                     (24 小時 Hours)
圖文傳真 Fax: 852-2723 2197

電      話 Tel. No.:
                                                                                                                   13 February 1997

                                                     FSD Circular Letter No. 1/97
                                       Fire Services Requirements for Refuge Floors


                     With the publishing of the Code of Practice for the Provision of Means of Escape in Case of Fire
     1996, the provision of Refuge Floor has been made mandatory for buildings exceeding 25 storeys in height. In
     this respect, the Fire Services requirements stipulated in the “Standard Fire Services Requirements for the
     Refuge Floor (NP/107)” have been reviewed. As most of the requirements will be covered by the revised
     Code upon its implementation on 1.12.1996, the “Standard Fire Services Requirements for Refuge Floor” will
     no longer be necessary.


                     The purpose of this Circular Letter is to advise on the provision of fire service installations (FSIs)
     required under paragraph 21.2(h) of the Code. In this respect, the FSIs to be provided shall be :-


                     (a)    those FSIs that are required to be provided in the building in accordance with the Code of
                            Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment, such as sprinkler system,
                            fire hydrant/hose reel system, emergency lighting, exit sign and manual fire alarm shall also be
                            extended to the Refuge Floor(s); and
                     (b)    an external drencher system with an independent water supply shall be provided to protect all
                            external wall openings. The system shall be automatically operated by a quick opening valve
                            or deluge valve which is operated by a system of approved heat detectors or sprinklers
                            installed in the same areas as the drencher system, together with manual control. For
                            buildings where a sprinkler system is provided, external sprinkler heads can be provided in
                                        Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter
                            lieu of the drencher system.
                                             凡 提 及    本 信 時 請 引 述 編 號 及 日 期
      FS 33F
                                                   -   2   -




            Sprinkler or drencher system is not required on roof even though it is designed as Refuge Floor.
However, other FSIs shall still be provided.


            The current edition of the Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment is
now under review and these Requirements will be stipulated in the revised version.




                                                                            Signed
                                                                      (LAM Chun-man)
                                                                for Director of Fire Services
