                      消 防 處                                                            FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
                     防 火 總 區                                                           FIRE PROTECTION COMMAND
              香港九龍尖沙咀東部康莊道 1 號 5 樓                                                      FIRE SERVICES HEADQUARTERS BUILDING,
                       消防總部大廈                                                                   No. 1 Hong Chong Road, 5/F.,
                                                                                                Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon,
                                                                                                        Hong Kong

本處檔號 Our Ref.:          (19) in FP 321/13 II
來函檔號 Your Ref.:

電訊掛號 Telex: 39607 HKFSD

HX
                                   (24 小時 Hours)
圖文傳真 Fax: 852-2723 2197

電     話 Tel. No.:
                                                                                                                         12 April 2000

      Dear Sirs,

                                               FSD Circular Letter No. 2 / 2000
                                                  Exit and Directional Signs


                The following changes to the provisions on exit and directional signs shall take
      effect from the date of this Circular Letter:-

                    i) The use of self-luminous signs as both exit and directional signs is permitted in buildings or
                       premises which are under single ownership or a central management;

                    ii) To address the environmental concern over the disposal of the “radioactive” self-luminous
                        signs, labels providing information on the hazard level, expiry date and method of disposal are
                        required to be affixed to the signs; and

                    iii) Having regard to the provisions in BS 5499:Part I:1990 the combination of green/black as
                         one of the colour codes for exit/directional signs is deleted.

      2.        The changes shall have no retrospective effect. Regarding the green/black colour code, a grace
      period until 1st October 2000 is allowed, after which it will no longer be accepted.

      3.      For easy reference I enclose the amended Section 5.10 of the Code, which will be
      incorporated in the revised Code in due course.


                                                                                         Your faithfully,




                                                                                                       signed
                                                                                          (KWOK Jing-keung)
                                                                                    for to this
                                      Ref. Number and date should be quoted in referenceDirectorletterof Fire Services
                                           凡 提 及 本 信 時 請 引 述 編 號 及 日 期
     FS 33F
5.10      Exit signs

SPECIFICATION


INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGNS

Internally illuminated signs to British Standard 5499 : Part 3 are approved for general use as both exit and
directional signs. This sign shall be connected to both mains and emergency power supply. If the building
is not equipped with an emergency generator, the sign shall be provided with secondary battery in
accordance with British Standard 5266 : Part 1.



SELF LUMINOUS SIGNS

Self luminous signs to British Standard 5499: Part 2 or other standards acceptable to the Director of Fire
Services are approved for use as both exit and directional signs only in premises which are under single
ownership or central management such as :-


(a) Premises requiring the provision of Audio/visual advisory systems according to Section 5.1
(b) Government Buildings
(c) Gymnasiums and Stadiums
(d) Hotels and Service Apartments
(e) Institutional buildings as defined in Section 3.1
(f) Museums, Exhibition Halls, Libraries and Places of Worship
(g) Office Buildings
(h) Parking Garages
(i) Passenger and Cargo Terminals
(j) Tunnels
(k) Temporary Show Flats
(l) Other premises or buildings as approved by Director of Fire Services from time to time.


A self-luminous sign illuminated by tritium or other radioactive source shall be indelibly marked at its lower
corner to indicate the radiation hazard and the expiration date (Month/Year) of the sign for easy
identification purposes and shall have a label at its back giving instruction or warning to users on the proper
method of disposal as required by the Radiation Board.
EXIT SIGN REQUIREMENT

Sufficient exit signs shall be provided to ensure that all exit routes from any floor within the buildings are
clearly indicated as required by the configuration of staircases serving the buildings. The signs shall bear
the words in English and Chinese of not less than 125 mm high as shown in Figure 1. The letter style shall
be in 'Helvetica' or 'Marigold' or 'Modified Garamond' as indicated on the samples while the Chinese
characters shall be with width of vertical strokes not less than 15 mm and with width of horizontal strokes
not less than 10 mm.




     Modified Garamond                      Helvetica                    Marigold

                                                  FIGURE 1




DIRECTIONAL SIGN REQUIREMENT


If a sign is not installed immediately above an exit or if an exit is not clearly visible from normally occupied
parts of the premises, directional signs shall be erected to ensure that all exit routes from any floor within the
buildings are clearly indicated as required by the configuration of staircases serving the buildings. The
graphics of directional signs shall be as shown in Figure 2. Signs having substantial compliance with
Figure 2 shall also be acceptable.




                                                  FIGURE 2
COLOURS

Colour contrast for translucent surrounds to lettering shall be as follows :


Colour          Contrasting Colour
Green               White
White               Green

White figure or lettering is preferred for internally-illuminated and self-luminous signs.   The colour
combination selected shall preferably be consistent throughout the same building.
