                           消 防 處                                                               FIRE SERVICES DEPARTMENT
                          防 火 總 區                                                              FIRE PROTECTION COMMAND
              香港九龍尖沙咀東部康莊道 1 號 5 樓                                                              FIRE SERVICES HEADQUARTERS BUILDING,
                            消防總部大廈                                                                      No. 1 Hong Chong Road, 5/F.,
                                                                                                        Tsim Sha Tsui East, Kowloon,
                                                                                                                Hong Kong

本處檔號 Our Ref.:               (4) in FPB 314/07 IV
來函檔號 Your Ref.:

電訊掛號 Telex: 39607 HKFSD

HX
                                       (24 小時 Hours)
圖文傳真 Fax: 852-2723 2197

電          話 Tel. No.:
                                                                                                                         18 June 1997

                                                   FSD Circular Letter No. 7/97
                                      Revised Fire Services Requirements for Refuge Floors


                    Further to my Circular Letter No. 1/97 issued on 13.2.1997 regarding the review on Fire Services
         requirements for refuge floors, the captioned issue was tabled for discussion in the Consultation Meeting on
         Review of Code of Practice for Minimum Fire Service Installations and Equipment (FSI Code) between this
         Department and representatives of concerned professional bodies and government departments held on
         26.5.1997.

                     With a view to standardizing drencher requirements for refuge floors provided in high rise buildings
         which may have different fire service installations, members thoroughly deliberated the matter and agreed that all
         external wall openings of refuge floors shall be protected by an external drencher system. The alternative of
         providing external sprinkler heads for these openings in lieu of the drencher system was considered not
         appropriate due to the different function of sprinklers to that of a drencher system. Accordingly such designs will
         no longer be accepted.

                     This revised requirement will be applicable to all projects for which the initial building plan
         submission is received by this Department on or after 1.9.1997. However, project architects are strongly
         advised to adopt the revised requirement before the aforesaid effective date.

                         The requirements for refuge floors will be incorporated into the revised version of the FSI Code in
         due course.




                                                                                                    Signed
                                                                                              (HSU King-ping)
                                                                                         for Director of Fire Services




                                            Ref. Number and date should be quoted in reference to this letter
                                                 凡 提 及 本 信 時 請 引 述 編 號 及 日 期
FS 33F
