Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 29
Lift Shaft Platforms 
 
  
Lift shaft platforms are temporary wall-supported platforms erected inside 
lift shafts of buildings or structures under construction.  They are provided as a rain 
shelter; a formwork platform to construct lift shaft walls; a mid-shaft platform to protect 
the lift well; a debris-catching platform; or a crash deck. 
 
2.  The construction of these platform s is governed by the provisions of the 
Construction Site (Safety) Regulations.  In addition, every occupier and employer have 
the general duty to ensure that a safe place of work is provided and maintained under the 
Occupational Safety and Health Ordinance, Cap. 509 and the Factories and Industrial 
Undertakings Ordinance, Cap. 59. 
 
3.  Collapses resulting from the failure of  lift shaft platforms had in the past 
claimed the lives of workers.  There had also been other serious accidents when 
construction workers sustained multiple injuries from the failure of such platforms.  
There is an imminent risk to the safety of workers engaged in the erection, maintenance 
and dismantling of lift shaft platforms. 
 
4.  In view of the risk involved, the Labour Department will consider serving 
suspension notices to the contractors to suspend the erection, maintenance and 
dismantling of lift shaft platforms under s ection 10 of the Occupational Safety and 
Health Ordinance should they fail to comp ly with any one of the following safety 
requirements: 
 
 (a) Every lift shaft platform should be properly designed by an 
authorized person (AP) or a registered structural engineer (RSE) 
employed by the contractor (Contractor’s AP/RSE).  The design 
plan prepared for this purpose should contain all the necessary 
details and specifications of the platform; 
 (b) Construction plans containing method statements on the erection, 
alteration, maintenance and dismantling of lift shaft platforms 
should be prepared by an engineer holding a qualification of TCP 
T4 or above, employed by the contractor (Contractor’s Engineer) 
and checked and signed-off by the Contractor’s AP/RSE; 
 (c) Every lift shaft platform should be constructed in accordance with 
the construction plan under the full-time immediate supervision of 
a competent person with TCP T1 qualification appointed in 
writing by the contractor.  Upon completion, the works should be 
checked by the Contractor’s Engineer; 
/(d) Any ….. 
 - 2 -
 (d) Any alteration to lift shaft platforms should be designed by the 
Contractor’s AP/RSE while the construction plan and method 
statement for the alteration works should be prepared by the 
Contractor’s Engineer and checked and signed-off by the 
Contractor’s AP/RSE; 
 (e) Risk assessment should be conducted by a planning team 
comprising site managerial and supervisory representatives from 
the main contractor and subcontractors, with at least one person 
within the team holding TCP T4 or equivalent qualifications, 
before work commences to erect, maintain or dismantle lift shaft 
platforms.  The assessment should also include a thorough 
inspection by the competent person appointed under paragraph (c) 
above to ascertain the stability of the lift shaft platforms erected 
such that works can be safely done on the platforms; 
 (f) Lift shaft platforms should be  properly maintained in accordance 
with construction plans.  Materials accumulated on the platforms 
should be removed regularly; 
(g) The dismantling of lift shaft pl atforms should be carried out under 
the full-time immediate supervision of the competent person 
appointed under paragraph (c) above; 
(h) Steps should be taken to ensu re that no material are thrown, 
tipped or shot down onto lift shaft platforms unless the platforms 
have been designed for such purpose by the Contractor’s 
AP/RSE; and 
(i) Suitable fall-arresting systems should be provided for and used by 
workers while they are engaged in the erection, maintenance and 
dismantling of lift shaft platforms. 
 
5.  Copies of the following documents should be made available on site for 
inspection by an Occupational Safety Officer of the Labour Department: 
 
(a) Design plan by the Contractor’s AP/RSE; 
(b) Construction plan and its method statement by the Contractor’s 
Engineer; 
(c) Record of the date of erection, maintenance and dismantling of a 
lift shaft platform and the name  of the competent person who 
supervised the works; and 
 (d) Risk assessment report. 
 
6.  If temporary occupation permit (TOP) arrangement is to be adopted: 
 
(a) All necessary safety features a nd provisions to ensure fire safety, 
safety of workers and safety of  occupants should be considered 
thoroughly in the planning and design stage; and 
 
/(b) All ….. 
 - 3 -
 
 
(b) All conditions imposed in the TOP (having regard to the TOP 
boundary plan accepted/approved by the Building Authority) 
including precautionary measures (e.g. fire separation of adequate 
fire rating between occupied and construction areas) and all the 
safety features and provisions in (a) above must be fulfilled and 
maintained accordingly at all times (including during the course 
of carrying out lift shaft works and lift shaft platform works) until 
the occupation permit is issued.  Please also note paragraph 7 
below. 
 
7.  In connection with the above, fu rther information may be obtained by 
reference to the following documents: 
 
 (a) Occupational Safety and Health Ordinance, Cap. 509 
  - general duties of employers and occupiers under section 6 & 7; 
  - service of suspension notice(s) under section 10; 
 
 (b) Factories and Industrial Undertakings Ordinance, Cap. 59 
  - general duties of proprietors under section 6A; 
 
 (c) Construction Sites (Safety) Regulations 
  -  safety requirements of worki ng places, scaffolds etc. in Part VA; 
and 
 
 (d) Guidelines on Safety of Li ft Shaft Works (Volume 1 – During 
Construction Stage and Before Handing Over to Lift Installation 
Contractor) issued by the Construction Industry Council. 
 
 -  Design and Construction of Li ft Shaft Platforms (paragraph 9); 
and 
  -  Special Attention to Buildings under Temporary Occupation 
Permit Arrangement (paragraph 12). 
 
8.  A similar practice note has been issued to authorized persons, registered 
structural engineers and registered geotechnical engineers. 
 ( AU Choi-kai ) 
 
Ref. :  L/M 18-92 to BD GR/ACT/11 
 Building Authority
 
First issue  October 1995 (AD/LM) 
This revision  February 2011 (AD/NB2) – General revision 
 
Index under  : Lift Shaft Platforms 