Buildings Department Practic e Note for Registered Contractors 30
Suspended Working Platforms
A 'suspended working platform' is a scaffold or a working platform suspended from a
building or structure by means of lifting gear and capable of being raised or lowered by lifting
appliances and includes all lifting appliances, lifting gear, counterweights, ballast, outriggers, other
supports and the whole 
of the mechanical and electrical apparatus required in connection with the
operation and safety of such a scaffold or working platform.
2. Suspended working platforms are widely used in the construction and maintenance of
buildings.  There have been serious and fatal accidents caused by failure of suspension ropes or
improper maintenance of operating mechanisms.
3. To strengthen control, the Labour Department has introduced the Factories and
Industrial Undertakings (Suspended Working Platforms) Regulation.  This Regulation applies to any
industrial undertaking in which a suspended working platform for carrying persons is used.  The
Regulation, except section 17 which shall be effective on 1  January 1996, came into operation on 1
July 1995.
4. This provides general guidance on the essential safety precautions for the use of
suspended working platforms.
Constructi on and Maintenance
5. A suspended working platform should  be of  sound con structi on, ad equatel y
supported and properly maintained.
6.     A suspended working platform sho uld be of sufficient length and at least 440 mm
wide.  To prevent fall or slip, its sides must be provided with suitable guar d-rails to a height between
900 mm and 1150 mm and toe boa rds to a height of not less than 200 mm.
/Installation ....
-   2   -
Installation
7.   Only wire ropes should be used fo r the raising, lowering and suspension of a  
suspended working platform and the points of susp ension should be at adequate horizontal distance  
from the face of a building or other structure so as to prevent the platform from c oming into contact 
with such face.  The counterweights on any of its outrigge rs should not be less than 3 times the  
weight necessary to balanc e the load on the proje cting part of the outrigge rs when the platform is f ully 
loaded.  In addition to the two suspension ropes, a suspended working pl atform should be provided at  
each suspension po int with a safety rope having an automatic safety device for supporting the 
platform in case of the failure of th e suspension ropes or any mechanism for rais ing or lowering the 
platform.
8. The erection, dismantling and alteration of a suspended working platform should only
be carried out under the supervision of a competent person.
Workers on Suspended Working Platforms
9.   Workers on a suspen ded working platform s hould be at lea st 18 years old and have 
obtained a certificate after having undergone training which is either recognised by the Commissioner  
for Labour or provided by the manufacturer of the suspen ded working platfor m or its local agent. 
While on a suspended w orking platform, every w orker should wear a  safety harness with its lanyard 
securely attached to an independent lifeline or an anchorage with fittings.
Test and Examination
10.   A suspended working platform  should be inspected by a competent person before use.  
It should also be subject to a load test and thorough exami nation by a competent examiner before use 
or after substant ial repair, re-erectio n, adjustment, failure, collapse, or exposure to weather co nditions 
likely to have affected its stability.
11. Periodical tes
ts and examinations thereafter are essential to ensure that it is in safe
working order.  A copy of the most recent certificate or report in respect of any inspection,
examination or test and examination must be displayed prominently on the suspended working
platform.
Safe Working Load
12.   To prevent overloading, a suspended working platform should be mar ked with its safe 
working load and the maximum number of persons that may be carried at any one time.  For easy  
identification, each suspended working platform shoul d be ar a marking to distinguish it from other  
similar platforms.
/Other ..
..
-   3   -
Other Observations
13. Further information may be obtained from the following documents :
(a)
Factories and Industrial Undertakings Ordinance
- definition of industrial undertaking in section 2 and general duties of employers
and employees in sections 6A and 6B; and
(b) Factories and Industrial Undertakings (Suspended Working Platforms) Regulation.
(Helen C P Lai YU)
Building Authority
Ref. : L/M 18-92 BD GR/ACT/11
First issue October 1995 (AD/LM)
Index under : Suspended Working Platforms