Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 47 
Al
uminium Windows 
Section 3 of Building (Construction) Regulation (B(C)R) stipulates that 
all materials used in building works or street works must be of a nature and quality 
suitable for their intended use or purposes; adequately mixed or prepared; and applied, 
used or fixed so as to perform adequately their intended functions.  These requirements 
apply to aluminium windows to be installed in any buildings.  This Practice Note for 
Registered Contractors (PNRC) specifies the requirements on the design and installation 
of aluminium windows to ensure public safety and to prevent water seepage.  Compliance 
with the design and installation requirements of aluminium windows described in 
paragraphs 3 to 9 below will be accepted by the Building Authority (BA) as meeting the 
provisions of section 3 of the B(C)R.  Any deviations from these requirements have to be 
separately substantiated for acceptance. 
M
inor Works Relating to Window 
2. Under the Minor Works Control System, certain minor building works 
relating to the repair and replacement of windows have been designated as minor works 
and may be carried out under the simplified requirements as an alternative to obtaining 
prior approval and consent under the Buildings Ordinance .  Reference can be made to 
Schedule 1 of the Building (Minor Works) Regulation and Practice Note for Authorized 
Persons, Registered Structural Engineers and Registered Geotechnical Engineers (PNAP) 
APP-147 regarding the list of minor works items and the simplified requirements 
respectively. 
Design and Installation Requirements 
3. Where aluminium windows are proposed, Reg istered Contractors (RC) 
should ensure that aluminium windows used in their projects are properly designed and 
installed to meet the performance requirements and the safety standards in the B(C)R.  
They should have experienced and skilled supervisors and w orkers as well as suitable 
quality assurance procedures in place to ensure the proper installation of the windows.  
Standards commonly used for the design and construction of window, which are 
acceptable to the BA, are given in Appendix A to both PNAP APP-37 and PNAP APP-53. 
4. When designing windows, attention should be paid to the requirements on 
horizontal imposed loads, protection of openings, function of protective barriers, locking 
devices of openable sashes/sub-frames, corrosion protection, quality control of materials 
and protection against the spread of fire and smoke between floors. 
/5. ... 
- 2 - 
5. W
indow members, transoms and mullions together with the glass panes 
should be of adequate size and strength taking into consideration the location, height and 
orientation of the windows.  Window frames should be securely and rigidly fixed in place 
to window openings in walls.  Where fixing lugs are adopted, they should be of stainless 
steel or hot dip galvanised steel having a minimum material thickness of 1.5  mm and be 
placed at 300  mm centres maximum.  Adequate site supervision should be provided to 
check that all the fixing lugs are properly fixed.  Where a spacing greater than 300 mm is 
proposed, the authorized persons (AP)/registered structural engineers (RSE)  should 
satisfy that the  performance of the windows including structural stability and 
waterproofing would not be compromised. 
6. All structural members of a window sh ould have a minimum aluminium 
thickness of 2 mm and the depth of the mullion should not be less than 38 mm.  Particular 
attention sh ould be paid to the fixing details of the hinges.  All hinges and fastening 
mechanisms adopted in the installation  should be able to withstand the positive and 
negative pressures due to the design wind conditions when the window is clos ed and 
should be of adequate size and strength commensurate with the size of the window. 
7. To ensure the strength and rigidity of windows in general , the width of a 
side-hung sash should not exceed 700  mm and the size of a top -hung sash should not 
exceed 2.5 m
2.  Hinges for openable sashes/sub-frames should be adequate in holding the 
weight of the sashes/sub-frames. 
8. W here 4 -bar hinges are adopted, reference should be made to the 
Guidelines on Fixing of 4-bar Hinges at Appendix A.   
9. Locking devices are used to restrain openable sashes/sub -frames of 
windows, window walls and curtain walls in locked positions.  Improper assembly may 
cause additional moment on the components of the locking devices.  Adequate site 
supervision should be provided to ensure that the works are properly assembled. 
Window Stay 
10. Suitably designed window stay can minimise the effect of strong wind on 
the durability of hinges and casements. 
Cleaning 
11. Corrosive agent should not be used for the cleaning of external walls and 
windows of buildings upon the completion of building works unless it is thoroughly 
washed with clean water immediately after application. 
Water Seepage 
12. Besides safety consideration, water leak age from windows poses undue 
nuisance to the occupants.  RC are reminded that poor workmanship is a major cause of 
the problem.  Reference may be made to the Guidelines on Prevention of Water Seepage 
in New Buildings  enclosed in the circular letter dated 7 March 2005 issued by the 
Buildings Department. 
/13. … 
- 3 - 
13. I
n order to ensure the durability of windows, it is recommended that the 
top member of a window frame should have a built -in projecting fin with a drip nose to 
prevent water ingress into the window frame/casement so as to minimis e the possibility 
of corrosion due to accumulation of water.  A typical section of the projecting fin is at 
Appendix B. 
Water Penetration Test 
14. It is advisable to perform field w ater penetration test on the installed 
aluminium windows to ensure water tightness and quality of the completed window units.  
Some international standard testing methods are given in Annex A of the Code of Practice 
for Structural Use of Glass 2018. 
15. A similar practice note has been issued to AP , R SE and r egistered 
geotechnical engineers. 
( YU Tak-cheung ) 
Building Authority 
Ref. :  BD GP/BORD/105 (II) 
BD GP/BREG/P/38 (II) 
First issue  July 2001  
Last revision  March 2006  
This revision  February 2021 (AD/NB1 & AD/NB2) (General Revision) 
Appe
ndix A 
(PNRC 47)  
Guidelines on Fixing of 4-bar Hinges 
4-bar hinges shall be manufactured from stainless steel with adjustable 
friction shoe, and all stainless steel bars of the hinge shall have a minimum thickness of 
2.5 mm.  For better corrosion resistance, stainless steel rivets/screws shall be used for 
the fixing of hinges and aluminium rivets shall not be used as they tend to corrode.  At 
least 3 numbers of stainless steel rivets of diameter not less than 4.8 mm or stainless 
steel screws of di ameter not less than 5 mm shall be used to fix each bottom and top 
bars of the hinge to the window frame and the openable sash.   
2. As stainless steel hinges and rivets/screws are used in aluminium 
window installation, due consideration and measures should be taken to prevent contact 
between dissimilar metals.   
3. To provide sufficient anchorage for the stainless steel rivet or screw to 
fasten the hinge to the window frame and the openable sash, a positive mechanical 
fixing, for example by inserting a stainless steel or hot dip galvani sed steel plate or 
bar/angle of not less than 3 mm thick inside the section to provide sufficient threads for 
the screw(s) shall be adopted.  A typical example of this arrangement is at Annex I.  
As an alternative, the window sections for fixing the hinge may be thickened locally to 
not less than 5 mm.  A typical example is at Annex II.  When insertion of an extra 
piece of stainless steel or hot dip galvani sed steel bar/angle inside the section or local 
thickening to 5 mm is not adopted, the thickness of aluminium sections for fixing the 
4-bar hinge shall be substantiated by calculations that it could provide sufficient 
anchorage for the stainless steel rivet or screw. 
4. T he length of the 4-bar hinge should be at least 60% of the width of the 
side hung casement window sash. 
(Rev. 2/2021) 
A
nnex I to Appendix A 
(PNRC 47)  
F 
 
 
 
E 
D 
 
LENGTH ≧ 60% OF WIDTH OF WINDOW SASH 
 
A, B, C, E, F – LOCATION FOR SCREW TO WINDOW FRAME/SASH 
(LOCAL THICKENING BY S.S. PLATE/BAR) 
 
D – LOCA TION FOR SCREW TO WINDOW SASH 
(LOCAL THICKENING BY ANGLE) 
SECTION X - X 
SIDE HUNG WINDOW WITH S.S. PLATE/BAR AND 
ALUMINIUM ANGLE INSERTED FOR FIXING SCREWS 
ELEV ATION 
S.S. PLATE/BAR 
(AT LOCA TIONS A, B, C) 
WIDTH OF WINDOW SASH 
≦ 700 mm ANGLE 
DETAIL A-A 
(AT LOCA TION D) 
S.S. 4-BAR HINGES 
M5x10 S.S. SCREW 
 
SEALANT 
WINDOW SASH 
HOLE FILLED WITH SEALANT 
HOLE FILLED WITH SEALANT 
WINDOW FRAME 
A B C 
ANGLE 
S.S. 4-BAR HINGE DETAIL A - A 
(Rev. 2/2021) 
Annex II to Appendix A 
(PNRC 47)  
5 mm 
5 mm 
ITEM DESCRIPTION MATERIAL 
1 WINDOW SASH ALUMINIUM 
2 WINDOW FRAME ALUMINIUM 
3 BRASS P LATE BRASS 
4 4-BAR HINGE STAINLESS STEEL 
5 M5 x 16 mm PAN HEAD 
MACHINE SCREW, PITCH 0.8 mm STAINLESS STEEL 
 
VIEW C 
SECTION B - B 
SECTION A - A 
VIEW C 
WINDOW FIXING 
(Rev. 2/2021) 
A
ppendix B 
(PNRC 47)  
ELEV ATION 
SECTION Y - Y 
 
PROJECTING FIN WITH DRIP NOSE 
WINDOW SASH 
WINDOW FRAME 
S.S. 4 -BAR HINGE  
Top Member of Window Frame 
with Built-in Projecting Fin 
(Rev. 2/2021) 