Buildings  Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 22
BAN
on Hand-dug Caissons
Hand-dug caissons have been used for many years and have had a disturbing
history of high accident rate and health hazards to workers.
2. Government has enacted the B
uildings (Amendment) Ordinance 1995 on
19 January 1995 to ban the use of hand-dug caissons.
3. "Hand-dug caisson" is defined in Section 2(1) of the Buildings Ordinance as any
foundation or earth-retaining structure, or part thereof, the construction of which includes the
excavation of a shaft in the ground by means of digging carried out by any person inside the shaft
with or without the aid of machine tools.  A new section 16(1A) empowers the Building
Authority (BA) to refuse to give approval to any plans of building works where they include the
construction of a hand-dug caisson.  Exemption may be granted only if it can be demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the BA personally that the following circumstances exist :
(a) the depth of the hand-dug caisson does not exceed 3 metres and
the diameter of the inscribed circle of the hand-dug caisson is not
less than 1.5 metres; or
(b) for the site concerned --
(i) the use of a hand-dug caisson is the only practical
construction method; or
(ii) there is no other safe engineering alternative.
Examples would be narrow or steeply-sloping sites where difficult access or insufficient working
space makes it not possible or not safe to use machine tools.
4. In these exceptional circumstances, the authorized person/registered structural
engineer must specify stringent safety requirements in the method statement for the building
works and ensure that the registered contractor is fully aware of and complies with all safety
requirements.  In this respect, the provisions of the Construction Site (Safety) Regulations
administered by the Commissioner for Labour should be observed.
5. The booklet "Guidance Notes on Hand-dug Caissons", published by the Hong
Kong Institution of Engineers, offers advice on good practice.  Reference should also be made to
the "Code of Safe Working Practices for Hand-dug Caissons", published by the Occupational
Safety & Health Council.
/6.  I ....
-   2   -
6. A grace period of 12 months is given for adjustment to the new legislation.  With
effect from 1st February 1996, the BA will not give approval to plans involving hand-dug
caissons unless there were exceptional circumstances as specified in section 16(1A) of the
Buildings Ordinance.
7. Meanwhile, I have urged authorized persons and registered structural engineers to
avoid using hand-dug caissons in the interest of safety for workers.  Loss of life or limb is too
high a price to pay.
8. A similar practice note has been issued to authorized persons and registered
structural engineers.
(Helen C P Lai YU)
Building Authority
Ref. : BD GP/BREG/C/14
First issued May 1993
This revision February 1995 (AD/SE)
Index under : Caissons
Hand-dug Caissons
Ban on Hand-dug Caissons