Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 42 
 
 
Submission of Plans and Documents in Electronic Format 
 
 
Introduction 
 
  The Electronic Transactions Ordinance (ETO) (Cap. 553) was enacted to 
facilitate the use of electronic transactions for commercial and other purposes.  It gives 
electronic records and digital signatures used in electronic transactions the same legal 
status as that of their paper-based counterparts.   
 
2.  The ETO provides that if a rule of law requires information to be given in 
writing, an electronic record satisfies such requirement if the information is accessible so 
as to be usable for subsequent reference (s ection 5 of the ETO).  In addition, if the 
signature of a person is required on the information, a digital signature of the person 
satisfies such requirement if the digital signature is supported by a recognised certificate 
and is generated within the validity of that certificate (section 6 of the ETO). 
 
3.  These provisions of the ETO for legal recognition of electronic records 
and digital signatures in relation to rules of law and admissibility of electronic records as 
evidence in court have come into operation since 7 April 2000.  Further details on the 
ETO are available at the website of the Digital Policy Office (www.digitalpolicy.gov.hk).  
As far as these provisions as applicable to the submissions made under the Buildings 
Ordinance (BO) are concerned, the Buildings Department (BD) has made the following 
arrangements. 
 
Information Systems Designated for Receiving Electronic Submissions 
 
4.  BD has set up the following information systems to receive e lectronic 
submissions including plans, documents and specified forms under the BO:   
 
(a) Electronic Submission Hub (ESH)  at ESH website  
https://esh.bd.gov.hk for receiving and processing of plan 
submissions;  
 
(b) e-Counter at receipt@bd.gov.hk for receiving submissions of 
size not exceeding 25 MB;    
 
(c) Electronic Forms Submission System (EFSS)  at BD website 
www.bd.gov.hk for receiving submissions of certain specified 
forms; and 
 
(d) Registration and Minor Works Management System  
(RMWMS) at BD website https://rmwms.bd.gov.hk for receiving 
and processing submissions of certain specified forms and related 
supporting documents. 
 
/Implementation … 
- 2 - 
 
 
Implementation 
 
5.  T he e-Counter and EFSS are already in operation. ESH is being 
implemented in three stages as shown in Appendix A.  Stage 1, Stage 2 and Stage 3 of 
ESH were launched on 30 June 2022, 31 March 2023 and 30 June 2024 respectively.  
RMWMS was launched on 29 May 2026.       
 
Format, Manner and Procedure 
 
6.  E lectronic submissions under the BO submitted  in accordance with 
paragraphs 8 to 17 below will be considered to be submitted  to the  corresponding 
designated information systems of BD for the purpose of receiving electronic records, as 
mentioned in section 19(2) of the ETO.  The identity of the person making an electronic 
submission should be authenticated by a digital certificate issued by the Postmaster 
General or other certification authorities recognised by the Commissioner for Digital 
Policy under the ETO.  Detailed information on such digital certificate and its application 
procedures are available at BD website.  
 
7.  T he format, manner and procedure for the acceptance of electronic 
information has been published in a gazette by virtue of the ETO.  Failure to observe the 
required format, manner and procedure  and the requirements of the respective systems 
will invalidate the submission.   Detailed  requirements of the designated information 
systems of BD as referred to in the above gazette are provided in paragraphs 8 to 17 below. 
 
Requirements of ESH 
 
8.  ESH is a web-based platform operating 24 hours a day and 7 days a week 
all year round, excluding scheduled maintenance and unexpected downtime.  Authorized 
persons (AP), registered structural engineers (RSE) and registered geotechnical engineers 
(RGE) may make an electronic submission via ESH online with a valid digital certificate
1 
or “iAM Smart”2.   
 
9.  By using ESH to make electronic submissions or applications, users are 
deemed to have agreed and accepted ESH as their designated information system for the 
purpose of section 19(2)(a)(i) of the ETO for receiving electronic records from BD.  
 
10. Unlike a submission in hard copy form, which may require multiple 
copies, only one set of documents is required for a submission in electronic format.  
Notwithstanding this , under regulation 11(2) of the Building (Administration) 
Regulations (B(A)R), if a plan or a related document is submitted (whether or not in hard 
copy form)  to the Building Authority ( BA) for approval, the BA may require the 
submission of additional copies in hard copy form.  Furthermore, the BA reserves the 
right to reply in hard copy form when necessary or appropriate.  
 
11.  The plans and documents submitted via ESH should meet the requirements 
in Appendix B.  Each submission of plans should be accompanied with an electronic plan 
index.  The guidelines on electronic plan index are set out in Appendix C.  
 
/12 … 
 
1  The digital certificate should be a personal digital certificate. 
2   Details of “iAM Smart” are available at the website www.iamsmart.gov.hk. 
- 3 - 
 
 
12. The d etailed system requirements, terms and conditions and Users’ 
Manual for ESH are available at ESH website.   
 
13.     AP, RSE, RGE  and registered contractors are reminded that necessary 
equipment and provisions should be in place to enable electronic records be supplied to 
the concerned parties, kept on site, and produced to the BA under regulations 36 and 40 
of the B(A)R.  
 
14.  To promote green environment and facilitate effective preparation
3 and 
processing of submissions, BD encourages paperless electronic submission via ESH as 
an alternative to the conventional paper submission.  To this end, after a submission is 
made via ESH, all the subsequent amendment submissions and associated documents 
should continue to be made via ESH so as to facilitate easy tracking, recording and 
processing of the submissions. 
 
Requirements of e-Counter 
 
15.  The submissions made via e -Counter should not involve voluminous 
documents, customised programme or large size drawings.  The electronic records should 
be sent as attachments in a digitally signed email and in the manner and format as follows:  
 
(a) electronic records of specified forms should be in Portable 
Document Format (PDF) with the digital signatures applied at the 
specified locations of the specified forms;  
 
(b) other electronic records should either be: 
 
(i) in PDF, and each page of the documents should not be 
larger than A3 size, and each document should be signed 
with a digital signature; or 
 
(ii) in Tag Image File Format (TIFF) or in Joint Photographic 
Experts Group (JPEG), the respective lengths of the two 
adjacent sides of the image of each document in a 
resolution of 200 dpi should not be greater than  
3 300 pixels x 2 340 pixels, 24- bit colour depth for 
document in colour, and each document should be signed 
with a digital signature; and  
 
(c) total size of the email including the attachments and digital 
signatures should not exceed 25 MB. 
 
 
 
 
/Requirements … 
 
 
3  An e -Workspace is available in ESH for the preparation of electronic submission s or 
applications.  Collaborators of a project team may prepare, contribute and/or upload the 
relevant plans/documents for digital signature by the project owner, the AP/RSE/RGE or the 
registered contractors for  an electronic submission.  The plans/documents prepared in 
e-Workspace will be deleted after the submission is made via ESH.
 
- 4 - 
 
 
Requirements of EFSS 
 
16. Certain specified forms and their attachments may be submitted online via 
EFSS as detailed under Practice Note for Registered Contractors  (PNRC) 2.  The forms 
and attachments should be signed with digital signatures.  Total size of the specified forms 
including the attachments and digital signatures should not exceed 25 MB.  The templates 
of specified forms are also available for downloading from BD website for submission as 
an attachment to an email, by hand or by post.  Users are encouraged to type in the 
required information using a computer so that the information can be automatically stored 
in the two-dimensional barcode (i.e. QR code) on the form, for subsequent processing by 
BD.  
 
Requirements of RMWMS 
 
17.  RMWMS is a web -based platform developed to receive and process 
certain specified forms and the related supporting documents as detailed under PNRC 2.  
The forms and attachments can be digitally signed using digital certificate issued by the 
Hongkong Post or Digi -Sign Certification Services Limited (“ Digi-Sign”), or via the 
“iAM Smart”
2 platform.  The file size of each form should not exceed 25 MB.   
 
Computation of Statutory Time Period 
 
18.  For computation of the statutory time period specified under the BO and 
the relevant regulations, there is no difference between paper submissions and electronic 
submissions via ESH.  The time shall start to count on the next day regardless if it is a 
public holiday or a gale warning day or black rainstorm warning day after the day of 
receipt of a submission.  
 
19.  For the avoidance of doubt, when a submission is made at night on 
Saturday, say 23:59 via ESH, the statutory time shall start to count on the next day  
i.e. Sunday.  When a submission is made at mid-night on Sunday, say 00:00 via ESH, the 
statutory time shall start to count on the next day, i.e. Monday, regardless if it is a public 
holiday or a gale warning day or black rainstorm warning day. 
 
Electronic Submission of Form BA10 - Notification before Commencement of 
Building Works or Street Works  
 
20.   Form BA10 signed with a digital signature and submitted via ESH will be 
checked automatically under the system. To streamline the development process, BD is 
prepared to favourably consider an application for modification of regulation 20(1) of the 
B(A)R to allow notification of appointment of registered contractor and commencement 
of building works or street works to be not less than 1 day prior to commencement of 
works if the specified Form BA10 is submitted via ESH. AP/RSE/RGE may consider 
applying for the above modification concurrently with the application for consent to 
commencement of works.  
 
 
 
 
 
/21. … 
 
- 5 - 
 
 
21.  When granting such modification under regulation 20(1) of the B(A)R, a 
condition will be imposed to require the submission of Form BA10 via ESH. 
AP/RSE/RGE/registered contractors are reminded of regulation 20(2) and (3) of the 
B(A)R regarding notificati on to the BA of the appointment of technically competent 
persons, provision of related information and a supervision plan not less than 7 days 
before commencement of works. 
 
Future Enhancement 
 
22.  BD will keep in view feedback received from the use of the above systems 
and continue to enhance their functions and usability in light of experience.  
 
23.   A similar practice note has been issued to AP, RSE and RGE. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ( HO Chun-hung ) 
Building Authority  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ref.:  BD TS/6-15/6  
 
First issue   May 2000  
Last revision   March 2025 
This revision  May 2026 (AD/CS) ( Paragraphs 3, 4, 5 & 6 amended, and paragraph 17 
added) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A 
(PNRC 42) 
Implementation of the Electronic Submission Hub (ESH) 
Stage 1 
1. In the first stage of ESH, the types of plans and related documents that can be 
submitted via ESH cover structural plan submissions for building works above ground 
not requiring cross-departmental referral.  Submissions for alteration and addition (A&A) 
works are excluded. 
Stage 2 
2. In the second stage of ESH, the types of plans and related documents that can 
be submitted via ESH cover plan submissions for the works below.  Submissions for A&A 
works are excluded. 
(a) hoarding, covered walkway and gantry; 
(b) demolition works; 
(c) drainage works; 
(d) excavation and lateral support works; 
(e) ground investigation works; 
(f) foundation works; 
(g) site formation works; and 
(h) all structural works. 
Stage 3 
3. In the third stage of ESH, all types of plans including general building plans 
and plans for A&A works, as well as related applications will be covered and can be 
submitted via ESH.    
(Rev. 6/2024) 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
    
 
     
 
  
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
 
      
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix B 
(PNRC 42) 
Requirements of Plans and Documents 
Submitted via the Electronic Submission Hub (ESH) 
1. Plans and documents submitted via ESH should meet the following 
requirements: 
(a) Prescribed plans: 
(i) the file should be in Portable Document Format (PDF) without 
security restrictions; 
(ii) one file should only contain one drawing with a file name not 
exceeding 50 alphanumeric characters; 
(iii) each file size should not be larger than 25 MB; 
(iv) each file should be signed with a digital signature using the 
signing tool provided in ESH; 
(v) paper size of the drawing should follow that specified in PNAP 
ADM-10 and in landscape orientation; 
(vi) a minimum unused space of 90 mm wide by 150 mm high, for 
accommodating the system generated stamps to indicate the 
plan has been digitally signed by AP, RSE and/or RGE, and the 
official stamps of approval and certification of copies of 
approved plans by the Building Authority, should be provided 
at the lower right corner on every plan in accordance with PNAP 
ADM-10; 
(vii) native PDF file created from computer software such as 
Computer Aided Design (CAD) and Building Information 
Modelling (BIM), is highly recommended; otherwise, if the file 
is generated by scanning paper documents, it should have a 
minimum resolution of 300 dpi and 24-bit colour depth; and 
(viii) the file should not contain multiple layers or post -edited 
comments, mark -up or annotation to ensure the file could be 
viewed and printed without loss of information under any 
circumstances. 
- 1 -
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
     
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Other prescribed documents: 
(i) the file format should be in single layer PDF without security 
restrictions; 
(ii) the file name should not exceeding 50 alphanumeric characters; 
(iii) each file size should not be larger than 500 MB; 
(iv) each file should be signed with a digital signature using the 
signing tool provided in ESH; and 
(v) a minimum unused space of 100 mm wide by 65 mm high, for 
accommodating the system generated stamps to indicate the 
document has been digitally signed by AP, RSE and/or RGE, 
should be provided at the lower right corner on the front page of 
every document. 
2. ESH also enables submission of files in CAD and BIM format of file size not 
larger than 500 MB each as supplementary information.  Further information and 
requirements are set out in PNAP ADM-19 and ADV-34. 
(Rev. 3/2023) 
- 2 -
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
    
    
  
    
  
 
    
   
  
 
      
 
 
    
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
Appendix C 
(PNRC 42) 
Guidelines on Electronic Plan Index for Plan Submissions 
via the Electronic Submission Hub (ESH) 
1. Each submission of plans via ESH should be accompanied with an electronic plan 
index, which should be completed online.  In the plan index, each entry of plan submission is 
required to be identified with a unique description comprising drawing title, drawing number, 
revision number of the plan.  Each drawing title, drawing number and revision number should 
not exceed 50 alphanumeric characters.  
2. ESH may comp ile electronic plan index automatically by detecting the required 
information on the plan if the information (case sensitive) is presented in the title block on the 
plan as follows: 
(a)  The drawing title should be located under a caption of “Drawing Title:”; 
(b) The drawing number should be located under a caption of “ Drawing 
Number:”; 
(c) The revision number should be located under a caption of “ Revision 
Number:”; and 
(d) The information in (a), (b) and (c) above should be presented in separate 
rows and in machine readable text format. 
3. An example of the title block is given in Diagram 1 for illustration. An example of 
electronic plan index automatically compiled by ESH is given below: 
Electronic Plan Index 
File Name1 Page 
Size1 
Drawing 
Number 
Revision 
Number 
Drawing Title Uploaded 
Date1 
SSB201_GN_TypD.pdf A0 SS/B2/01 - General Notes and 
Typical Details 
31 May 2022 
10:11 
SSB202-A _GF-RF.pdf A0 SS/B2/02 A G/F to R/F 
Framing Plan 
31 May 2022 
10:12 
SSB203-A _A-A.pdf A0 SS/B2/03 A Section A-A 31 May 2022 
10:12 
SSB204-E_RC_B&S.pdf A0 SS/B2/04 E R.C. Details of 
Beams & Slabs 
31 May 2022 
10:12 
SSB205-E_RC _W&C.pdf A0 SS/B2/05 E R.C. Details of 
Walls & Columns 
31 May 2022 
10:12 
SSB206-E_RC _SS&WT.pdf A0 SS/B2/06 E R.C. Details of 
Staircases & 
Water Tank 
31 May 2022 
10:12 
Note1 File name, page size and uploaded date of a plan would be compiled in the plan index by 
ESH automatically notwithstanding that the information is not listed in the title block. 
- 1 -
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
    
    
    
    
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
90 mm (W) x 150 mm (H) 
space for accommodating 
the system generated 
stamps to indicate the plan 
has been digitally signed 
by AP, RSE and/or RGE 
and the official stamps of 
approval and certification 
of copies of the approved 
plans by the Building 
Authority 
Drawing Number: 
SS/B2/02 
Revision Number: 
A 
Unused minimum 
border on 4 sides: 
A0 – 20 mm 
A1 – 20 mm 
A2 – 10 mm 
A3 – 10 mm 
A4 – 10 mm 
Drawing Title: 
G/F to R/F Framing Plan 
Diagram 1 – Sample Title Block for Electronic Plan 
(5/2022) 
- 2 -