Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 31
 
 
Monitoring for Site Safety and Quality 
 
 
Aims and Functions 
 
  The Site Monitoring Section (SMS) of  the Buildings Department aims to 
enhance the safety and quality of buildi ng works on construction and demolition sites 
by a programme of systematic inspections.  Staff of SMS will visit sites to focus on 
unsatisfactory aspects which may have impact  on or interface with public safety and 
quality.  Matters of concern in this context include : 
 
 (a) divergence or deviation in a material way from 
approved plans; 
 
 (b) use of defective materials ; 
 
 (c) absence of adequate precautionary measures; 
 
 (d) lack of supervision by the persons responsible; 
 
 (e) departure from approved or agreed work sequence or 
procedures; 
 
 (f) inadequacy of experience of workmen or plant 
operators for specially hazardous operations; 
 
 (g) non-compliance with conditions imposed or orders 
issued by the Building Authority; and 
 
 (h) contravention of provisions of the Buildings 
Ordinance or subsidiary legislation. 
 
The object is to enhance safety and quality assurance by encouraging responsible 
attitudes on site and deterring dangerous operations. 
 
2.  Where necessary, the SMS will advise  the authorized person, registered 
structural engineer or registered geot echnical engineer of corrective action on 
unsatisfactory aspects likely to have safety -related consequences.  Other remedies and 
sanctions, including the service of orders under section 23 and 24A of the Buildings 
Ordinance, prosecution and disciplinary action will be considered where appropriate in 
the light of the circumstances of individual cases. 
/Inspections ….. 
 - 2 -
 
Inspections  
 
3.  SMS inspecting officers will inspect sites more frequently where the 
works, the construction stages or the ope rations pose higher risks to life and limb.  
Examples are demolition, deep excavations , percussion piling, formation of steep 
slopes, construction of high retaining walls , works projecting over public thoroughfares 
and operation of heavy powered mechanical plant.   
 
4.  All SMS inspecting officers will carry  a warrant card with authorisation 
by the Building Authority to : 
 
(a) inspect any premises and enter upon any land; 
(b) ascertain whether the provisions of the Buildings 
Ordinance are being complied with; and 
(c) carry out tests, make openings and take reasonable 
samples for the purposes of the Buildings Ordinance.  
 
Co-operative Efforts 
 
5.  Registered contractors are expected to  co-operate in the interest of public 
safety and quality by ensuring that : 
 
(a) ready access to sites is provided to SMS staff; 
(b) copies of all approved plans, agreed work sequence 
and procedures and all conditions imposed by the 
Building Authority issued to the registered contractor 
by the authorized person, registered structural 
engineer and registered geotechnical engineer are kept 
on site; 
(c) copies of all prescribed plans, details of the works and 
supervision plans (as may be required) for minor 
works issued to the registered contractor by the 
authorized person are kept on site of the minor works; 
(d) all approved or agreed work sequence and procedures 
and all conditions imposed or orders issued by the 
Building Authority, made known and explained to the 
registered contractor by the authorized person, 
registered structural engineer or registered 
geotechnical engineer, are adhered to; 
(e) requirements on supervision of building and 
demolition works are met;  
(f) adequate precautionary measures are provided, 
particularly with regard to falling objects at sites; 
/(g) ….. 
 
 - 3 -
 
(g) any contravention resulting from the carrying out of 
works is notified to the Building Authority as soon as 
possible; and 
 (h) unsatisfactory aspects of work sites and building 
works are rectified  without delay.  
 
Interface wi
th Others 
 
6.  Inspections in connection with a pproval of plans, issue of consent, 
permits, licences and occupation permits and performance tests of building materials, 
structural elements and systems will conti nue to be carried out by staff of the New 
Buildings Divisions of the Buildings Department. 
 
7.  In the event of the SMS inspecti ng officers identifying contravention of 
safety or quality requirements not falling with in the ambit of the Buildings Ordinance, 
they will refer the cases to the appropriate government department for consideration of 
follow up action. 
 
Minor Works carried out in accordance with the Simplified Requirements 
 
8.  Minor works carried out in accord ance with the simplified requirements 
(i.e. involving submitted plans instead of a pproved plans) are small scale with short 
construction period.  Hence instead of a programme of systematic inspections for 
construction and demolition sites with approve d plans, selected cases of minor works 
under construction will be subject to audit s ite safety inspections.  The matters of 
concerns, remedies and sanction, cooperative efforts and interface, etc. described above 
are generally applicable, with the extent depending on the circumstances of individual 
minor works cases. 
 
Common Concern  
 
9.  Maintenance of site safety and quality demands the joint efforts of all 
parties concerned.  Please bring this practice note to the attention of your sub-
contractors and all staff responsible for site supervision. 
 
10.  A similar practice note is issued to authorized persons, registered 
structural engineers and registered geotechnical engineers. 
 ( AU Choi-kai ) 
Building Authority 
 
Ref : BD  GR/1-50/48/0 
 
First issue September 1995 
Last revision February 2006 
This revision December 2010 (AD/NB2) – paras. 5(c) & 8 added, paras. 4(c), 5(b) & 
(d) amended 