Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 15 
 
 
A
sbestos 
 
 
 Exposure to asbestos is hazardous to health.  As a general rule, all persons 
involved in the design, construction, and maintenance of buildings must avoid the use of 
asbestos containing material (ACM) and ensure that the removal of ACM from existing 
buildings will be carried out only by registered asbestos personnel. 
 
 
P
rohibition 
 
2.
  The use of asbestos and ACM in any industrial or manufacturing process 
including any building operation are prohibited under the Factories and Industrial 
Undertakings (Asbestos) Regulation (Cap 59AD).  Effective from 4 April 2014, the 
import, transhipment, use and supply of asbestos and ACM are banned under the Air 
Pollution Control Ordinance (APCO) (Cap 311), whilst ACM present in existing buildings 
will not be affected. 
 
 
C
ontrol and Abatement Works 
 
3
.  Certain building activities, such as the clearance of unauthorised building 
works, and repair or demolition of existing buildings, may involve the handling of in-situ 
ACM. Such activities should be controlled and where necessary, abatement works should 
be carried out.  Generally speaking, for all building works where ACM  is present or 
suspected to be present, the control and abatement measures required include the 
following : 
 
 
(
a) appointment of a registered asbestos consultant as early as possible to carry 
out an asbestos investigation; 
 
 
(b
) as part of the  investigation of suspected ACM , possibly the  taking of 
samples for testing by a registered asbestos laboratory; 
 
 
(
c) for cases where the presence of ACM is confirmed, preparation and 
submission of the following to the Environmental Protection Department 
(EPD) : 
- an Asbestos Abatement Plan for the planned removal of ACM; and/or 
- an Operation and Maintenance Plan for deferred treatment , e.g. 
encapsulation,  enclosure, of the same; 
 
 (d
) appointment of a registered asbestos contractor to carry out the removal 
works under the supervision of an asbestos consultant;  
 
 
/
28-day … .. 
 
 
 
 
- 2 - 
 
 (e) 28-day advance notice to EPD before commencement of works;  
 
 (f)
 protection of the workers in accordance with the requirements of the 
Labour Department (LD) ; and 
 
 (
g) proper disposal of asbestos contaminated waste in accordance with the 
requirements of EPD. 
 
4.
  For more effective control of the in -situ ACM and to ensure better 
protection for personnel working in the related building sites, all authorized persons and 
registered structural engineers are advised to take the following steps:   
 
(
a) complete asbestos investig ation and abatement of the ACM before 
commencement of other building activities; 
(b) refrain unauthorised personnel, the scavengers in particular, from entering 
the works site, before completion of the asbestos investigation with all the 
in-situ ACM inventoried, photographed, conspicuously labelled and 
segregated; and 
(c) ask the registered asbestos consultant supervising the abatement works to 
certify successful completion of the abatement works in accordance with 
the asbestos investigation report and the abatement plan, and immediately 
notify EPD of the same. 
 
 
G
eneral Information 
 
5.
  LD, through its Occupational Safety and Health Branch, gives advice on 
the health and safety of workers engaged in any work involving ACM. 
 
6.
  The Asbestos Management and Contr ol Section of EPD gives general 
advice on asbestos management and abatement techniques and keeps registers of asbestos 
consultants, asbestos contractors, asbestos supervisors and asbestos laboratories. 
 
7.
  For certain asbestos abatement works involving only low risk and readily 
identifiable non-friable ACM, the requirement of the services of an asbestos  consultant 
and/or an asbestos contractor may be exempted.  The exemption list was published in the 
Gazette Notice 25/1997 - GN 3021 and GN 3022 on 6 June 1997, and a copy of which is 
available at EPD’s website:  http://www.epd.gov.hk. 
 
8.
  Relevant information on the subject can also be found in the following 
publications : 
 
 
(
a) Code of Practice: Safety and Health at Wo rk with Asbestos 
published by LD. 
 
 
(b
) Health Hazards of Asbestos published by LD. 
/5 sets … .. 
 
 
 
- 3 - 
 
(
c) 5 sets of Code of Practice on Asbestos Control published by EPD :- 
-   Handling, Transportation and Disposal of Asbestos 
Waste; 
-  Preparation of Asbestos Investigation Report, Asbestos 
Management Plan and Asbestos Abatement Plan;  
-  Asbestos Work Using Full Containment or Mini 
Containment Method; 
-   Safe Handling of Low Risk Asbestos Containing 
Material; and 
-    Asbestos Work Using Glove Bag Method. 
 
 
(d)
 3 leaflets published by EPD :- 
-    Environmental Asbestos Control; 
-  Asbestos Removal of Unauthorised Building Works ; 
and 
-   Banning Asbestos.  
 
(
e) Practice Note 2/97 Handling of Asbestos Containing Materials 
in Buildings issued by the Professional Persons Environmental 
Consultative Committee. 
 
(f)
 Code of Practice for Demolition of Buildings published by the 
Buildings Department. 
 
9.
  A similar practice note has been issued to authorized persons, registered 
structural engineers and registered geotechnical engineers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (HUI Siu-wai) 
Building Authority   
 
 
R
ef. : BD GR/BM/4 
  BD GR/1-10/460 
 
T
his PNAP is previously known as PNAP 114 
First issue  September 1985 
Last revision  November 2012  
This revision  January 2015  (AD/CS)  (General revision)
 
 