Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 4 
 
 
Hoardings, Covered Walkways and Gantries1 
Part IX of Building (Planning) Regulations 
 
 
Hoardings, Covered Walkways and Gantries 
 
  Hoardings, covered walkways and gantries can be a source of 
inconvenience and may even become a hazard to the public.  Some are not strong enough 
to stand the inevitable wear and tear.  Others become dilapidated.  In some instances, 
covered walkways are obstructed by scaffolding timbers or cross -pieces placed at low 
level: this causes danger to pedestrians, particularly those with weak sight. 
 
2. A minimum standard for the construction of hoardings/covered 
walkways/gantries has been set by the Building Authority (BA) and is available from the 
authorized person in charge of the project.  Generally, the clear width of pedestrian 
walkways for hoardings/covered walkways/gantries should be related to their location.  A 
minimum 1.1 m clear width of pedestrian walkway should be maintained in all cases. 
 
 
3. To withstand the impact of debris, hoardings/covered walkways
1 for 
demolition works in urban areas must be constructed with steel frames and steel plates.  
A system of temporary lighting should also be provided for all covered walkways.  A 
recommended lighting layout for a typical covered walkway (2 m wide and 2.5 m high) 
is the installation of luminaires complete with 18 W or 20 W 600 mm long tubular 
fluorescent lamps at 3 m spacing. 
 
 
4. Hoardings/covered walkways /gantries must not be allowed to become 
dilapidated or to cause danger to the public, particularly those with weak sight.  They 
should be maintained regularly to remain safe.  If they are not kept safe, a cease works 
order will be imposed on the main works until the remedial work to the hoardings/covered 
walkways/gantries is completed. 
 
 
Temporary Suspension of Public On-street Parking Spaces 
 
5. Where it is necessary to suspend on- street parking spaces, applications 
should be made to the Commissioner for Transport in accordance with the Notes for 
Guidance attached at Appendix A.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/Self-certification … 
 
 
                                                 
1  Whe re covered walkways and gantries are described in this practice note (PNRC), they 
include the catch platforms erected on the covered walkways and gantries as appropriate.  
- 2 - 
 
Self-certification 
 
6. T
o promote self -discipline and to facilitate the development progress, 
self-certifications of the following applications for provision of hoardings/covered 
walkways/gantries are implemented under Practice Note for Authorized Persons , 
Registered Structure Engineers and Registered Geotechnical Engineers (PNAP) APP-23:  
 
 
(
a)  application for a permit to erect hoardings/covered 
walkways/gantries (hoarding permit) will be processed by the BA 
within 30 days provided that the criteria set out at paragraph 19 
of PNAP APP-23 are met. 
 
(
b) application for renewal of hoarding permit at least 30 days before 
its expiry under paragraph 25 of PNAP APP-23. 
 
(c) m
inor amendments to the permitted hoardings/covered 
walkways/gantries may be carried out without prior agreement of 
the BA if the criteria and conditions set out at paragraph 26 of 
PNAP APP-23 are met. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(
 YU Po-mei, Clarice ) 
Building Authority  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
R
ef. : BD GR/RC/2 
 BD GP/BREG/P/16 (Pt VI)  
 
F
irst issue August 1965 
Last revision   February 2009 
This revision   April 2025  (AD/NB1)  (General revision) 
 
 
Appendix A 
(PNRC 4)  
 
Application for Temporary Suspension of Public On-street Parking Spaces 
(Metered or Non-metered) 
 
Notes for Guidance 
 
A. General Conditions 
 
(1) An application for the suspension of parking spaces should be submitted to the 
Commissioner for Transport (C for T), marked for the attention of the Chief 
Transport Officer for the appropriate region (Hong Kong, Kowloon or the New 
Territories).  The application should specify the intended suspension period, and 
when and where the suspension is intended to take place.  The application should 
be supported with reason for the proposed action, and should be copied to the 
Commissioner of Police (C of P), marked for the attention of the Senior Staff 
Officer/Traffic (SSO/T) responsible for the region in question.  lf other 
Government departments are involved in the activity requiring the suspension of 
spaces, the application should also be copied to that department or departments as 
appropriate.  Alternatively, for projects which involve other special arrangements, 
the application can be discussed together with other details in a meeting amongst 
parties concerned. 
 
(2) The number of parking spaces to be suspended should be kept to a minimum at 
any one time.  Applicants should plan to carry out their work by stages if too many 
spaces would be affected. 
 
(3) No work should be commenced at t he parking spaces prior to their suspension. 
 
(4) No person should remove any parking sign, meter head, meter post, studs or 
carriageway markings without the authorization of the C for T. 
 
(5) When works are completed before the approved suspension period, the applicant 
must notify the District Senior Transport Officer/Transport Officer (DSTO/TO) 
of the Transport Department (TD) by telephone for the early reinstatement of the 
parking spaces for public use.  The applicant should subsequently confirm such 
notification in writing. 
 
(6) When it becomes apparent that works will extend beyond the approved suspension 
period, the applicant should notify the DSTO/TO of TD by telephone as soon as 
possible and subsequently confirm this in writing. 
 
(7) When observation shows that the works requiring the parking spaces to be 
suspended have been completed, the C for T, in liaison with the C of P, may 
arrange for such spaces to be reinstated, even if the period of suspension requested 
has not fully elapsed. 
 
(8) The C for T, in liaison with the C of P and departments concerned, may arrange 
for parking spaces to be reinstated when the affected area is observed to be no 
longer in use for works. 
/(9) … 
- 1 - 
 
(9) Notwithstanding the requirement for advance notice described in sections B  
and C below, the applicant may, for emergency cases, contact the DSTO/TO of 
TD and the appropriate SSO/T of the Hong Kong Police Force (HKPF) for special 
consideration to arrange for the suspension of parking spaces at short notice.  For 
cases where advance notice is not practicable, the applicant should notify the 
appropriate SSO/T of the HKPF immediately and the DSTO/TO of TD as soon as 
possible. 
 
B. Suspension of Parking Spaces for a Period less than Three Months 
 
(1) Applications must be submitted in writing together with sketches showing the 
parking spaces to be suspended, so as to reach the DSTO/TO of TD at least seven 
working days before the commencement of the proposed suspension. 
 
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) above, for the suspension of not more than two 
parking spaces for no more than one day for road works, an application can be 
submitted by telephone three working days in advance to the DSTO/TO of TD 
and the appropriate SSO/T of the HKPF and followed by confirmation in writing 
on the same day. 
 
(3) Care should be exercised in undertaking works on the footway or road 
carriageway to ensure that parking signs, meter posts and studs or carriageway 
markings are not damaged.  However, should these traffic aids be damaged 
accidentally, the applicant must inform the Highways Department (HyD), the TD 
and the HKPF immediately.  In such cases, the applicant should be responsible 
for the cost of the damage incurred and/or the replacement or reinstatement of the 
equipment or traffic aids affected. 
 
C. Suspension of Parking Spaces for a Period more than Three Months 
 
(1) Applications must be submitted in writing, together with sketches showing the 
proposed parking spaces to be suspended, so as to reach the DSTO/TO of TD  
at least 30 days prior to the commencement of the proposed suspension. 
 
(2) The maximum period of suspension that may be approved is one year.  In case 
suspension of the parking spaces for a longer period is required, the applicant must 
submit a fresh application prior to expiry of the approved suspension period. 
 
(3) The applicant must bear the costs of removal and subsequent reinstatement of the 
affected parking spaces.  The costs should be paid in advance to the HyD, that is 
before the suspension is effected. 
 
(4) The applicant must inform the DSTO of TD and HyD at least one week before the 
completion of the project so that arrangements can be made to reinstate the 
suspended parking spaces. 
 
 
(Rev. 4/2025)  
 
- 2 - 