 
Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 70 
Id
entification of Registered Contractors 
The Building Authority (BA) maintains separate register s of registered  
general building contractors, registered specialist contractors and registered minor 
works contractors.  Any person who wishes to check whether a contractor  or his 
authorized signatory is registered with the BA  may inspect the relevant registers at the 
Buildings Department (BD) or at the BD website (http://www.bd.gov.hk).     
2. T o facilitate the public in  identifying appropriate registered contractor s to 
be appointed for the carry ing out of various categories of building works or street 
works, and various classes, types or items of minor works, your cooperation is 
requested to display clearly and conspicuously your registration numbers and relevant 
details on your publicity materials, e.g. advertisements, pamphlets , brochure s and 
business cards, etc.  In addition,  registered Class III minor works contractors 
(individual) and Qualified Persons are encouraged to produce the respective registration 
card and QP card for gaining access to private  premises for carrying o ut minor works 
and inspecting windows, supervising or carrying out repair works under the Mandatory 
Window Inspection Scheme respectively. 
3. Please do not use BD’s logo in any of your publicity materials as BD’s logo 
is protected under the Copyright Ordinance (Cap. 528) and the Government of the Hong 
Kong Special Administrative Region is the owner of such copyright.  Any reproduction, 
copying, adaptation, distribution, dissemination, uploading, posting, modification, 
publication, transmission of the logo or using the logo for any commercial purpose 
without the authori sation of the BD is strictly prohibited.  The Department may take 
appropriate actions against anyone using BD’s logo without authorisation. 
( CHEUNG Tin-cheung ) 
Building Authority 
Ref. : BD GP/BORD/114 
First issue December 2010  
This revision  May 2017 (AD/CS) (General Revamp) 