Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered  Contractors  37
Sale Offices and Show Flats on Construction Sites
There is an increasing tendency that developers wish to operate sale offices and
exhibit 
show flats on construction sites well before the new buildings are completed and certified
for occupation.  Since sale offices and show flats, which are open to the general public, are
incompatible with construction works, for the sake of public safety, the following principles must
be observed:
(a) No part of any new building, whether still under construction 
or
substantially completed, should be occupied and used as a sale office or a
show flat without a temporary occupation permit.
(b) No temporary building within a construction site should be occupied and
used as a sale office or a show flat without a temporary building permit
and a temporary occupation permit for that purpose.
2. In considering applications for such temporary occupation and usage, the Building
Authority has to be satisfied that -
(a) the premises intended to be occupied and used as a sale office or a show
flat is structurally suitable for the purpose;
(b) the premises is adequately segregated from the rest of the construction
works in terms of fire resisting construction;
(c) there is available adequate independent and protected means of access and
escape to and from the premises with direct connection with a street; and
(d) the premises is provided with adequate fire service installations to the
satisfaction of the Director of Fire Services;
3. In permitting such temporary occupation and usage, the Building Authority may,
depending on the circumstances, impose suitable conditions-
(a) to limit the period within which the premises may be so occupied and
used;
(b) to restrict the number of persons to be accommodated at any one time; and
(c) if necessary, to require the partial or total suspension of building works on
the construction site during the period of such occupation and use.
/ 4. Any ...
- 2 -
4. Any violation of the above requirements or conditions may be liable to revocation
of the temporary occupation permit and prosecution under section 40(1) and (5) of the Buildings
Ordinance.
5. Registered Contractors should take note of the above principles and when allowing
the general public to enter the construction site for such activities they should satisfy themselves
that a temporary occupation permit for the relevant premises has been issued and that all
conditions are observed. (
CHOI Yu-leuk)
Building Authority
Ref. : BD GP/BORD/10 (III)
First issued August 1997 (AD/D)
Index under : Sale offices
Show flats
TOP