Buildings Department Practice Notes for Registered Contractors 61 
 
 
Protection of natural streams/rivers 
from adverse impacts arising from construction works  
Background 
 
 
Many of the natural streams/rivers 1  in Hong Kong are good habitats 
supporting a variety of wildlife and with important ecological functions, and carry 
high aesthetic and landscape value.  There have been calls for increased protection to 
natural streams/rivers.  
 
2. A natural stream/river refers to a natural channel with natural water fed 
from upper terrains, which c overs both perennial stream/river with water flowing 
throughout the year as well as intermittent ones with water-flow only during the wet 
season.  The streambed is natural and not man-made, which could consist of mixtures 
of bedrocks, boulders, cobbles, gravels, sand, silt or clay. The banks are also largely 
natural and defined, covered with bank-side and riparian vegetations. Ecologically 
Important Streams/ Rivers (EIS) are natura l streams/rivers with important ecological 
functions such as providing habitats for diverse or rare animal or plant communities.  
The updated list of EIS can be  found in the website of Agriculture, Fisheries and 
Conservation Department (http://www.afcd .gov.hk/conservation/ eng/eis_1.htm). 
 
Construction Activities 
 
3. The Environment, Transport and Works Bureau (ETWB) has issued a 
Technical Circular (Works) No. 5/2005  on pr otection of natural streams and rivers. 
Details of the circular are available on the website at the address of 
http://www.etwb.gov.hk .  ETWB has advised that constr uction works in or affecting 
natural streams/rivers shoul d be restrained where possi ble to minimise possible 
disturbance to  these streams/rivers.  In case that construction works in or affecting 
natural streams/rivers are unavoidable,  they should be carried out in an 
environmentally responsible manner and with appropriate mitigation  measures to 
minimise any adverse impact so caused. 
 
4. Construction works arising from pr ojects and developments  may have 
direct and/or indirect impacts on natural streams/rivers.  Direct impacts are those 
resulted from physical changes directly disturbing the natural habitats of the 
 
/streams/rivers. ….. 
 
                                                 
1 For the purpose of this practice note, natural streams and rivers exclude  flood retention ponds,  fishponds 
and engineered stormwater drainage systems which include drainage channels, nullahs, and ditches. 
Examples of engineered drainage channels are Tin Shui Wai Main Nullah, Yuen Long Nullah, Tuen Mun 
Nullah, engineered sections of Shing Mun River, or concrete U-channels for collection of surface runoff. 
streams/
rivers.  Examples of such construction works causing direct impacts are 
training, filling, culverting, narrowing, widening, damming, realignment and 
diversion of streams/rivers, as well as bank stabilisation works such as shotcreting 
on riverbanks.Indirect impact s are those resulted from construction works that may 
cause pollution to or affect water-flow of streams/rivers.  Examples of such 
construction works causing indirect impacts are site formation, landfilling discharge 
of silt and polluted water, dumping of debris into an area nearby, or foundation 
works involving dewatering, geotechnical and demolition works in the proximity of 
streams/rivers. 
 
Measures for Protection 
 
5. Most of the natural streams/rivers in the territory are subject to the control 
of a number of ordinances to various  extents.  These may include Land 
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Ordinance (Cap 28), Waterworks Ordinance (Cap 102), 
Town Planning Ordinance (Cap 131), Public  Cleansing and Prevention of Nuisances 
Regulation (Cap 132BK), Country Parks Ordinance (Cap 208 ), Waste Disposal 
Ordinance (Cap 354) and Wate r Pollution Control Ordinance (Cap 358).  Authorized 
persons, registered structural  engineers and registered co ntractors are advised to pay 
attention to the requirements of the releva nt ordinance(s) which are applicable to 
their projects. 
 
6. During the planning stage, designers  should avoid any potential impact on 
natural streams/rivers, partic ularly EIS.  If this is unavoidable, it is strongly 
recommended that appropriate measures be a dopted to minimise or compensate such 
impacts, taking into account the advice from all relevant authorities and the 
recommendations of any environmental re view/study that may be required.  
Appendix A contains a set of broad guide lines (extracted from ETWB’s Technical 
Circular (Works) No. 5/2005) on planning fo r construction works in natural stream/ 
rivers and in EIS. 
 
7. During the detailed design stage, designers are strongly recommended to 
adopt environmental friendly de sign in order to maintain the naturalness, landscape 
as well as ecological value of natural streams/rivers.  To facilitate smooth 
implementation during construction, requirements for the proposed mitigation 
measures covering temporary works and construction activities should be fully 
incorporated in the contract documents for the project.  Guidelines (extracted from 
ETWB’s Technical Circular (Works) No. 5/2005) on developing precautionary 
measures during the construction st age are given in Appendix B. 
8. For projects with only potential indir ect impacts on natural streams/rivers 
other than EIS, authorized persons, registered structural engineers and registered 
contractors are strongly advised to ca rry out good site practice and establish 
appropriate pollution control measures during construction to minimise impacts.  
/9. ….. 
- 2 -
9. A s
imilar practice note has been issued to authorized persons and registered 
structural engineers. 
 ( Marco M H
 WU ) 
 Building Authority 
Ref. : BD GR/1-10/12/0  
   
First issue  May 2005 (AD/NB1)   
 
Index under : Natura l streams/rivers 
- 3 -
Appendix A 
(PNRC 61)  
Guidelines on Planning for Construction Works in Natural Stream/Rivers  
and in Ecologically Important Streams/Rivers (EIS) 
(A)  Planning for Construction Works in Natural Rivers and Streams 
 
 In planning for construction works in  natural rivers and streams, the 
following considerations are relevant: - 
 
a. When determ
ining the method and type of construction works, the project 
proponent should ascertain the potential environmental impact associated with 
such works.  The method and type of works should be so chosen to avoid or 
minimise the possible environmental impact on streams/rivers.  Construction 
of a new channel using artificial non-vegetative smooth lining (e.g. concrete 
lining) should be avoided as far as possible and should only be applied as the 
last resort when other more environmentally friendly designs are proved 
impracticable.  In general, the various engineering options that can be adopted 
for river and stream modification works, in ascending order of impact on the 
environment and ecology, are as follows: - 
(i) prote
ction/stabilisation of river bank at locations prone to erosion by use 
of natural materials such as rock; 
(ii) removal of fallen objects/obstruction and clear ing of vegetation in a 
selective manner; 
(iii) enlargement of channel by modifying one bank only; 
(iv) enlargement of channel by modifying/widening both banks; 
(v) enlargement of channel by deepening;  
(vi) realigning by creating a new channel; 
(vii) construction of a new channe l using artificial non-vegetative
 smooth lining such as concrete. 
b. The proposed works should preferably  be carried out during the dry season 
where fl
ow in the stream/river is low.  Rapid flow in a stream/river during 
the wet season together with the on-going construction works will have a 
higher potential of inducing collapse of the riverbanks and resulting in 
highly turbid water. 
c. Temporary access to the works site  should be carefully planned and 
locat
ed to minimise disturbance caused to the substrates of  streams/rivers 
and riparian vegetation by construction plant. 
 1
 
d. The use of less or sm aller construction plant ma y be specified to reduce 
disturbance to the riverbed wher e aquatic inhabitants are located. 
 
e. Temporary sewerage system should be  designed and installed to collect 
wastewater and prevent it from entering rivers and streams. 
 
f. Proper locations well away from rive rs/streams for temporary storage of 
materials (e.g. equipment, filling materials, chemicals and fuel) and 
temporary stockpile of c onstruction debris and spo il should be identified 
before commencement of the works. 
 
g. Landscape and visual impact assessment should be conducted early to 
identify, assess and mini mise any adverse landscape or visual impact. 
 
 
(B)  Planning for Construction Works in the EIS 
 
 In planning for construction works in the EIS, in addition to the 
considerations mentioned in (A) above, the following considerations are also relevant: - 
 
a.  Environmentally friendly features, such as diversified planting of trees, 
shrubs, herbaceous and wetland plants and grass on the river embankments to 
form an ecological riparian zone, should be incorporated into the works.  The 
bottom of a natural stream/river should be left intact where practicable, and 
only bank stabilisation or bank widening works using soft but adequately 
robust engineering techniques or bank widening works should be carried out. 
 
b. The use of concrete or the like shoul d be avoided or minimised.  Unless there 
are severe site constraints, more environmentally friendly alternatives such as 
geotextile-reinforced grassed lining, bio-engineering methods, natural 
stonewall, gabions etc. should be used on the embankment and random rubble 
or stones on the bottom. 
 
c. Wherever a natural habitat of special flora and fauna is identified, alternative 
design and construction methods shoul d be considered to avoid the 
disturbance.  If disturbance is unavoidable, proper mitigation measures such 
as translocation, temporary migr atory pathways, recolonisation or 
compensation plan should be devised.  After construction works, placement of 
substrates (e.g. gravels, crushed st ones or boulders) of similar size and 
composition to those of the original riverbed should be considered to 
encourage recolonisation. 
 
d. Phasing of the works should be considered to better control and minimise any 
impact caused, and to provide refuge for aquatic animals.  Works should not 
be carried out for the whole width of the stream at the same time, if the stream 
is wide enough.  Adequate width of the stream should be left intact with the 
flow maintained as far as practicable so that disturbance to the aquatic 
ecosystem is kept to the minimum.  A free passage along the stream is 
 2
necessary to avoid forming stagnant wa ter in any phase 
of the works and to 
maintain the integrity of aquatic communities. 
 
e. If the upper reaches are breeding grounds for fish and the works would involve 
construction of dam structures, installa tion of specially designed fish ladder 
should be provided for fish migration. 
 
f. Before commencement of works, Ag riculture, Fisheries and Conservation 
Department (AFCD) should be consulted for the presence of rare species 
within the works site.  Mitigation measures such as relocation of the rare 
species outside the site should be discussed with AFCD where necessary.  
 
g. Before commencement of works, an inspection of stream should be carried out 
to check the presence of any pools of considerable size.  If found, they should 
be preserved with care as far as possible, as they are usually favourite habitats 
of aquatic inhabitants and removal of pools can be detrimental to aquatic 
communities.  
(May 2005) 
 3
Appendix B 
(PNRC 61) 
Guidelines on Developing Precautionary Measures  
during the Construction Stage 
 
 
Depending on the extent of the proposed  works and particul ars of relevant 
rivers and streams, different precautionary  measures may have to be devised and 
implemented.  Some of the measures generally recommended for adoption to the 
construction works in the vicinity of natural rivers and streams are listed below:- 
 
a. The proposed works site inside or in  the proximity of natural rivers and 
streams should be temporarily isolated, such as by placing of sandbags or silt 
curtains with lead edge at bottom and properly supported props, to prevent 
adverse impacts on the stream water qualities.  Other protective measures 
should also be taken to ensure that no pollution or siltation occurs to the water 
gathering grounds of the work site. 
 
b. The natural bottom and existing flow in the river should be preserved as much 
as possible to avoid disturbance to the river habitats.  If temporary access 
track on riverbed is unavoidable, this should be kept to the minimum width 
and length.  Temporary river crossings should be supported on stilts above 
the riverbed. 
 
c. Stockpiling of construc tion materials, if nece ssary, should be properly 
covered and located away from any natural stream/river. 
 
d. Construction debris and spoil should be covered up and/or properly disposed 
of as soon as possible to avoid bei ng washed into nearby rivers/streams by 
rain. 
 
e. Construction effluent, site run-off and sewage should be properly collected 
and/or treated.  Wastewater from a construction site should be managed with 
the following approach in descending order: 
(i) minim
isation of wastewater generation; 
(ii) reuse and recycle; 
(iii) treatment. 
 Prope
r locations for discharge outlets of wastewater treatment facilities well 
away from the natural streams/rivers should be identified. 
 
f. Removal of existing vegetation alongside the riverbanks should be avoided or 
minimised.  When disturbance to ve getation is unavoidabl e, all disturbed 
areas should be hydroseeded or planted with suitable vegetation to blend in 
with the natural environment upon completion of works. 
 1
g. Adequate 
lateral support may need to be erected in order to prevent soil/mud
from slipping into the stream/river , but without unduly impeding the flow
during heavy rain
h. Supervisory staff should be assigned to station on site to closely supervise and
monitor the works.
(May 2005) 
2