Buildings Department Practice Notes for Registered Contractors 43
Corruption Prevention
Recently, there have been a growing number of corruption cases in
the construction industry involving building works in both the private and public
sectors.  The Buildings Department is concerned that the spread of corruption in the
construction industry might lead to building works failing to comply with the
Buildings Ordinance.  The purpose of this practice note is to draw the attention of
Registered General Building Contractors (RGBCs) and Registered Specialist
Contractors (RSCs
) to the need to combat corruption in the construction industry and
the proper way to handle situations if they or their staff are offered a bribe.
2. RGBCs and RSCs appointed in respect of building works or street
works are required under the Buildings Ordinance to give continuous supervision to
ensure that the building works or street works are constructed in accordance with the
provisions of the Buildings Ordinance and the approved building plans.  Very often,
site staff are employed to assist in these duties.  It is important for the RGBCs and
RSCs to explicitly prohibit their staff from soliciting or accepting advantages from
subcontractors and suppliers or offering advantages to other people in relation to
their work.  In this connection, it is advisable that RGBCs and RSCs should develop
a company Code of Conduct and promulgate staff instructions relating to these
prohibitions.  When a RGBC/RSC or his staff is offered a bribe, he should report
immediately to the ICAC.  The telephone number for this purpose 
is :
ICAC : 2526 6366 (24 hours)
3. A bribe may not always be money.  It can be a loan, a gift, a favour,
an offer of employment or any other advantage.  The full definition of the term
“advantage” is contained in the Prevention of Bribery Ordinance, Cap. 201.  An
extract of the definition is reproduced at Appendix I.
Conflict of Interest
4. It is a common practice of the construction industry for RGBCs or
RSCs to sublet or subcontract certain building or street works to other contractors.
To avoid conflict of interest, the RGBCs and RSCs should not sublet or subcontract
any
 works to their staff who are required to supervise the carrying out of such
works.  Equally works should not be sublet or subcontracted to a body corporate
and/or partnership, the director, manager, partner or other officer of which are staff
of the RGBCs and RSCs who are required to supervise the works.  If such subletting
or subcontracting arrangement exists, the supervisory staff should be replaced.
/5. … ..
-   2  -
5. With effect from 2 July 2001, all ground investigation works,
predrilling, interface core-drilling, post-installation drilling and proof test core-
drilling must be carried out by a RSC in the Ground Investigation Field Works
category.  The RSC who is appointed to carry out proof test core-drilling for certain
foundation works, as required under Building (Construction) Regulation 30, should
make a declaration on its connection with the contractor who is appointed to carry
out the foundation works.  Such declaration should include whether or not the RSC
is a holding/subsidiary/associated company of the foundation contractor, or has
financial relationship with it (e.g. cross-directorship), or has financial interest in the
foundation works.
Advisory Services Group of ICAC
6. The ICAC has 
an Advisory Services Group  dedicated to provide free
and confidential corruption prevention advice to private companies.  The Group also
assists companies in their development of company Code of Conduct and staff
instructions.  RGBCs and RSCs interested in promoting corruption prevention
practices in their companies  and developing related instructions for their staff are
invited to call the Group’s hotline Tel. No. 2526 6363.
(C M LEUNG)
Building Authority
Ref  : BD GP/BREG/A/9 (IV)
BD(CR) BC/IC/43
First issue  October 1999
This revision  November 2001 (AD/Support)  – paras. 4 and 5 added,
para. 6 amended.
Index under : Corruption Prevention
Appendix I
(PNRC 43)
Under the Prevention of Bribery Ordinance, Cap 201, “advantage”
means :
(a) any gift, loan, fee, reward or commission consisting
of money or of any valuable security or of other
property or interest in property of any description;
(b) any office, employment or contract;
(c) any payment, release, discharge or liquidation of
any loan, obligation or other liability, whether in
whole or in part;
(d) any other service, or favour (other than
entertainment), including protection from any
penalty or disability incurred or apprehended or
from any action or proceedings of a disciplinary,
civil or criminal nature, whether or not already
instituted;
(e) the exercise or forbearance from the exercise of any
right or any power or duty; and
(f) any offer, undertaking or promise, whether
conditional or unconditional, of any advantage
within the meaning of any of the preceding
paragraphs
 (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e).
Ref  :  BD GP/BREG/A/9 (III)
BD(CR) BC/IC/43
First 
issue  October 1999 (AD/SE)