Buildings Department Practice Notes for Registered Contractors 48
Testing of Building Materials
Authorized Persons (APs) and Registered Structural Engineers (RSEs)
may be approached from time to time for advice on the acceptability of
 building
materials and proprietary fire resisting products.  This practice note  sets out the
Building Authority
’s position which may be of assistance to APs and RSEs in preparing
advice to manufacturers, suppliers, registered general building contractors, registered
specialist contractors and building owners.
2. Under the Buildings Ordinance (BO), APs, RSEs and registered
contractors (RC) have responsibilities to supervise building works including the
selection and application of building materials/products
 and to certify compliance with
relevant provisions of the BO upon completion of works.  In this connection, it should
be noted that the BO contains no provision whereby the Building Authority may issue a
certificate, a test or assessment report with respect to these materials/products.  The
Building Authority takes the position, therefore, of relying on APs, RSEs and
independent laboratories for testing for compliance with standards and for certification.
For certification of the building materials/products used and their compliance with
standards, upon completion of works, please refer to PNRC 25.
3. The Building Authority will recognize those laboratories accredited by
the Hong Kong Laboratory Accreditation Scheme (HOKLAS) or by other laboratory
accreditation bodies which have reached mutual recognition agreements/arrangements
with HOKLAS.  
You may find such laboratory accreditation bodies at the web site of
the Hong Kong Accreditation Service –
http://www.info.gov.hk/itc/eng/quality/hkas/hkas.shtml.  You should ensure that the
tests conducted by an accredited laboratory are within its scope of accreditation.
4. The following list of materials/products, which is not exhaustive, would
normally be required to be tested by accredited laboratories as mentioned in
paragraph 3: -
(a) Concrete cube and core;
(b) Steel reinforcement
(c) Reinforcement splices/couplers;
(d) Curtain wall systems; and
(e) Fire resisting products.
/Proprietary … ..
- 2 -
Proprietary Fire Resisting Products
5. In establishing the acceptability of proprietary fire resisting products,
reference should be made to the performance standards as laid down in Building
(Construction) Regulation 90 and the current Code of Practice for Fire Resisting
Construction issued by the Building Authority.  This is of particular relevance to
compartment walls, protective cover to structural steel, fire resisting doors and other
building materials for use in fire resisting construction.
6. As to compliance with the above requirements, reliance can also be
placed on a test or assessment report prepared by an
 accredited laboratory as mentioned
in paragraph 3 above.  The Building Authority will rely on APs or RSEs to ensure that
the test or assessment reports are prepared by accredited laboratories and that the
reports are still within their validity period.
Assessing Organizations
7. At present there are three assessing organizations, which are not
accredited laboratories but are recognized for assessment, on the list of recognized
laboratories/assessing organizations compiled by the Building Authority and
promulgated in the letter dated 25 July 1994 to all APs, RSEs and RCs.  They are: -
(a)
 Building Research Establishment (UK)
(b) International Fire Consultants Ltd. (UK) {limited to assessment
reports endorsed by Mr Peter E Jackman} and
(c) Warrington Fire Research Consultants (UK).
8. With the issue of this practice note, the list described in paragraph 7
above will cease to have effect .  However t he assessment reports on fire resisting
products prepared by the 3  organizations above will continue to  be acceptable until
further notice.
( C M LEUNG )
Building Authority
Ref. : BD GR/BM/5(2)(II)
First issue  October  2001  (AD/Support)
Index under : HOKLAS
List of testing laboratories
Material testing