Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 68 
La
rge Metal Gates 
The installation of metal gates1 involves building works as defined under 
the Buildings Ordinance. This practice note provides guidelines on design and 
installation of  large metal gates at fence walls or entrance of building  as well as 
maintenance of metal gates. 
2.  For new buildings, metal gates should be shown on the building plans 
submitted for prior approval and consent by the Building Authority.  For large metal 
gates with a height exceeding 3.2m, plans showing structural details of the metal gates 
including design calculations are also required to be submitted for approval.  For the 
installation of new metal gates in existing buildings, if the height of the metal gate 
exceeds 3.2m, both building and structural plans are required to be submitted for 
approval prior to installation.  Registered Contractors (RC) should ensure that the metal 
gates installed in their projects are properly designed and constructed. 
Minor Works Relating to Metal Gates 
3. Under the Minor Works Control System, certain  works relating to 
installation of metal gates in existing buildings have been designated  as minor works, 
which may be carried out under the simplified requirements as an alte rnative to  
obtaining prior approval and consent from the Building Authority (BA).  For the list of 
minor works items and the simplified requirements, please refer to Schedule 1 of the 
Building (Minor Works) Regulation and PNRC 71 respectively. 
Design and Installation Requirements  
4. In general, all metal gates should be constructed of suitable materials and 
satisfy the performance requirements stipulated in the Building (Construction) 
Regulation 3.  They should be properly designed and constructed in acc ordance with 
recognised standards to ensure their satisfactory and safe operation under the expected 
conditions of use.  All parts of the metal gate installations, whether fixed or movable, 
including the fixings, should in all respects be of sound construc tion, adequate strength 
and free from obvious defects for their intended working life. 
5. The installation of large metal gates should be under the qualified 
supervision of a registered general building contractor (RGBC) or registered minor 
works contractors (RMWC) as the case may be to ensure that the works are carried out 
in accordance with the approved plans or the prescribed plans of minor works and the 
required standards are complied with.  Upon completion of installation, the metal gate 
should be inspected and trial operated to ensure that it has been properly installed. 
/6. ... 
1 Manually or electrically operated. 
- 2 - 
6. In the erection of metal gate, special attention should be paid to the 
following structural details to ensure that they are properly constructed in accordance 
with the approved plans: 
(a) the elements of the gate framework, post support and foundation 
to maintain the stability of the metal gate during operation; 
(b) connection to fix the gate framework to the surrounding structure; 
(c) for swing -type metal gate, hinge pin fittings to  permit pivotal 
movement; 
(d) for sliding metal gate, end stoppers to prevent the metal gate from 
over-travel at both ends; and similar provisions made for multi -
passing metal gate which also serve as connection between gate 
leaves; and 
(e) additional measures that are provided to stop the metal gate from 
being lifted off or derailment during operation. 
Additional Measures and Reference Standards 
7. Recommendations on additional measures , design considerations  and 
maintenance for enhancing the safety of metal gat es are given in Appendix A. Some 
relevant standards/specifications for the design and installation of metal gates are given 
in Appendix B . RC may also make reference to other national standards and 
specifications if equivalent performance can be demonstrated. 
Tests on Anchors 
8. Where drilled -in anchors are proposed to secure the stability of metal 
gate, at least 5 numbers of each type and size of the anchors installed should be tested by 
pull-out test to demonstrate that its pull- out capacity is not less  than 1.5 times the 
recommended tensile load as specified by the anchor manufacturer.  The tested anchor 
should be considered satisfactory if it does not show any signs of separation, plastic 
deformation or deleterious effect during the test.  Such tests should be carried out under 
the direction of the A uthorized Person (AP)/Registered Structural Engineer ( RSE) for 
metal gates with plans approved by the BA or submitted as minor works submissions 
with the Prescribed Building Professionals (PBP) appointed.  R egarding metal gates 
with plans submitted as minor works submissions without the PBP appointed, such tests 
should be carried out under the direction of the RGBC or RMWC as the case may be. 
Electrically Operated Metal Gates 
9. For electrically operated metal gates, reference should also be made to 
the "Code of Practice for Installation of Electrically Operated S liding Gates, Sliding 
Glass Doors and Rolling Shutters"
2 published by the Electrical and Mechanical Services 
Department. 
/Guidelines ... 
2 https://www.emsd.gov.hk/filemanager/en/content_659/COP%20for%20Sliding%20Gate_E_-Final-072903.pdf 
- 3 - 
Guidelines for Authorized Person and Registered Structural Engineers 
10. A similar practice note is issued to AP and RSE. 
(CHEUNG Tin-cheung) 
Building Authority 
Ref. : BD GP/BORD/108 (II) 
First issue December 2008 
Last revision December 2010  
This revision April 2018 (AD/NB1) (General revision)
Appendi
x A 
(PNRC 68) 
Recommendations for Enhancing the Safety of Metal Gates 
Swing-Type Metal Gate 
All hinge fittings of a swing-type metal gate should be welded all round 
to the gate framework and should be able to withstand the dead weight of the metal gate  
and wind loads during normal operation. 
2. A  m
inimum of 3 hinges should be provided for the connection between 
the metal gate and each supporting post.  To prevent the metal gate being lif ted off from 
its hinges after installation, measures such as installing one of the hinge fittings with the 
hinge pin pointing in a reverse direction should be incorporated for providing restraint 
against vertical movement. 
Sliding Metal Gate 
3. T
 he g
ate leaf as well as any other moving parts of a sliding metal gate 
should be designed and constructed in such a way so as to prevent them from falling 
down, collapsing or derailment during normal operation or in case of contact with 
stationary obstacles.  Proper design and provisions of guide and metal gate stopper of 
adequate size and strength are required to maintain lateral stability of the metal gate and 
to resist the imposed loads and impact force. 
Folding Metal Gate 
4. P
 ar
agraphs 1 to 3 above are applic able to a folding metal gate with two 
or more hinged leaves, guided and/or supported at the top or at the bottom.  Similar 
provisions for preventing the gate leaf from being lifted off should be made for the 
hanging fittings connecting the hinged leaves. 
In
stallation and Use 
5. Before installation, all members and components of the metal gate should 
be visually inspected to ensure that they are free from visual defects  and comply with 
the approved structural details. 
Maintenance and Repair 
6. All parts of the metal gate providing mechanical resistance and 
connection, whether fixed or movable, are subject to normal deterioration of wear and 
tear.  Regular inspection and maintenance should be provided to safeguard the metal 
gate from disengagement or derailment. 
/7. ... 
- 1 -
 
7. The
 AP should coordinate with the RGBC  or RMWC to prepare 
documentation on the safe operation and maintenance of the metal gate installed, for 
regular maintenance and repair to be arranged by the Incorporated Owners/management 
company.  Routine inspection and maintenance work such as cleaning of dirt and 
obstacles from the track and guide rail, and application of lubrication to enable smooth 
movement of the metal gate should be carried out every three months. 
(Rev. 4/2018) 
- 2 - 
Appe
ndix B 
(PNRC 68) 
Relevant Standards and Specifications for Metal Gates 
The various standards, specifications for the design and installation of metal 
gates as listed below are intended to provide reference information an d the list is not 
exhaustive. Other international or national standards and specifications may also be 
referred to if equivalent performance can be demonstrated. 
BS 4092:Part 1:1996 : Domestic front entrance gates. Specification for metal gates. 
BS EN 12433-1:2000 : Industrial, commercial and garage doors and gates. 
Terminology. Types of doors. 
BS EN 12433-2:2000 : Industrial, commercial and garage doors and gates. 
Terminology. Parts of doors. 
BS EN 12604:2000 : Industrial, commercial and garage doors and gates. 
Mechanical aspects.  Requirements. 
BS EN 12605:2000 : Industrial, commercial and garage doors and gates. 
M
echanical aspects.  Test methods. 
BS EN 12635:2002 
+A1:2008 
: Industrial, commercial and garage doors and gates. 
Installation and use. 
BS EN 13241-1:2003 
+
A2:2016 
: Industrial, commercial and garage doors and gates.   Product 
Standard.   Products without fire resistance or smoke control 
characteristics.  
BS EN ISO 1461:2009 : Hot dip galvanised coatings on fabricated iron and steel 
articles.  Specifications and test methods. 
BS EN ISO 12944-1 
to 4:1998 
: Paints and varnishes. Corrosion protection of steel structures 
by protective paint systems. 
BS EN ISO 12944-
5:2007 
: Ditto 
BS EN ISO 1294-6 to 
8:1998 
: Ditto 
BS EN ISO 14713- 
1 :2017  
: Zinc coatings. Guidelines and recommendations for the 
protection against corrosion of iron and steel in structures. 
BS EN ISO 14713-
2:2009 
: Ditto 
BS EN ISO 14713- 
3:2017 
: Ditto 
BS EN 1176-1:2017 : Playground equipment.  General safety requirements and test 
methods. 
(Rev. 4/2018) 