Buildings Department Practice Notes for Registered Contractors 27
Design and Construction of 
Cantilevered Reinforced Concrete Structures 
 
 
  The structural stability of
 cantilevere d reinforced concrete structures in 
particular those of pure slab type re lies on their proper design, construction and 
maintenance.  Furthermore, the fact that weathering may lead to the early degradation of 
material strength should be borne in mind when carrying out the design and 
construction of cantilevered members exposed to weathering
[1].  Common examples of 
this type of structural elements are project ed structures located at the exterior of 
buildings like canopies, balconies, projec ting windows, A/C hoods, A/C platforms, 
flowerbeds etc.  Their collapse would have serious consequences.   
 
2.  This Practice Note gives general guidance to Registered Contractors on 
the safe design and construction of cantilevered reinforced concrete structures.  The 
guidance notes shown in the appendices are al so important for Registered Contractors 
who are required to observe, in particul ar, those requirements relating to site 
supervision and submission of construction reports upon completion of the works. 
Similar practice note has already been issued to Authorized Persons and Registered 
Structural Engineers.   
 ( AU Choi-kai ) 
Building Authority 
Ref. : BD GP/BORD/23 (III) 
 
First issue  December 1994 
Last revision  Novem
ber 2005 (AD/NB2)  
This revision September 2012 (AD/NB2 & ADNB 1) - Paras. 1 & 2 and Appendices A 
& B revised and Appendix C 
deleted 
                                                 
[1]  For the purpose of this practice note, cantilevered structures under permanent solid cover located at 
not greater than one storey height and of at leas t the same plan area as such solid cover may be 
considered as not exposed to weathering. 
Appendix A 
(PNRC 27) 
Guidance Notes on Design and Construction of 
Cantilevered Reinforced Concrete Structures 
General Requirements 
 
1. The design of cantilevered structures s hould satisfy the following requirements:- 
(a) For cantilever of clear span more than 1000 mm, a beam-and-slab type of 
arrangement should be used instead of pure slab cantilever where 
practicable. 
(b) The span to effective depth ratio of  cantilevered beams or slabs should 
comply with clause 7.3.4.2 of the Code  of Practice for Structural Use of 
Concrete 2004 (Second Edition) (the Concrete Code).  
(c) Dead loads due to finishes, parapets  and waterproofing materials, and 
imposed loads due to maintenance work and possible ponding resulting 
from malfunctioning of the drainage system should be accurately 
assessed and allowed for in the design. 
(d) Cantilevered structures, especially those projecting over streets, should 
be detailed in such a manner that they may be demolished or replaced 
without affecting the safety and inte grity of the main structure of the 
building. 
(e) The extent of projection from the external wall and the clear space above 
the level of the ground of cantilevered structures should comply with 
Regulations 7 and 10 of the B(P)R and PNAP APP-19 as appropriate. 
 
2. The construction of cantilevered structures should satisfy the following 
requirements:- 
(a) All cantilevered structures should be cast monolithically with and at the 
same time as the directly supporti ng members.  Construction joints 
should not be located along the external edge of the supporting members. 
In case this is unavoidable, any alte rnative construction method must be 
submitted for prior approval.  Such method should ensure that the 
finished product would be able to attain a structur al strength no less than 
that provided by monolithic constructi on, and that it would not allow the 
ingress of water through the joint. 
(b) Adequate bar spacers should be pr ovided to maintain the position and 
alignment of the steel reinforcing bars. 
(c) Placing and compacting of concrete should comply with clause 10.3.5 of 
the Concrete Code. Every endeavour s hould also be made to avoid steel 
reinforcing bars from being displaced or depressed. 
 1
 
 
(d) Removal of formwork and falsework should comply with clause 10.3.8.2 
of the Concrete Code. 
 
3. 
The AP/RSE/Registered Ge neral Building Contractor (RGBC) should provide 
the appropriate level of supervision and inspection on the construction of 
cantilevered structures so as to ensure  compliance with the approved plans.  
Supervision requirements shall be in acco rdance with Table 9.1 of the Code of 
Practice for Site Supervision 2009. 
 
4. Means to prevent accumulation of wate r should be provided to cantilevered 
structures exposed to weathering
[1] and shown on the ge neral building plans 
whereas the corresponding surface water dr ainage provisions should be shown 
on the drainage plans for approval. In this connection the following are to be 
observed:- 
(a) Effective waterproofing should be provided. 
(b) Water-proof membrane/tanking should be protected by 1:3 cement sand 
mortar laid to a fall of not less than 1:75.  Wherever practicable, 
adequate drainage should be provide d to drain the surface water away 
from the cantilevered structure.  If for any reason, the design is to guide 
the water to just cascade down from the edge of the cantilevered 
structure, e.g. in the case of pr ojecting windows, the AP/RSE should 
ensure that by so doing  it will not create any nuisance to anyone in 
accordance with Regulation 4(b) of the B(P)R.  A continuous drip or 
groove should always be provided at the bottom edge of the cantilevered 
structure to keep the dripping water away.  All canopies, irrespective of 
whether projecting over streets or not,  should be provided with adequate 
surface water drainage to discharge into the surface water disposal 
system of the building. 
(c) Where the cantilevered structure is not accessible for 
cleaning/maintenance, the maximum distance between the drainage 
outlets, if provided, should be not more than 5 m. 
(d) Every endeavour should be made to avoid penetration or embedment of 
pipes in cantilevered structures, especially slab elements.  If 
unavoidable, consideration must be  given to any lo cal reduction in 
structural strength affected by the surface drainage system or embedded 
service pipes and ducts. In this regard, AP/RSE are reminded to make 
reference to PNAP APP-105 on the requirements and guidelines of 
embedment of water-borne pipes insi de reinforced concrete beams and 
slabs. 
                                                 
[1]  For the purpose of this practice note, cantilevere d structures under permanent solid cover located at 
not greater than one storey height and of at leas t the same plan area as such solid cover may be 
considered as not exposed to weathering. 
 2
 
 
Cantilevered Beams 
 
5. The structural design of cantilevered beams should satisfy the following 
requirements:- 
(a) The overall depth at support should be at least 300mm. 
(b) Top and bottom steel reinforcing bars should be securely held in position 
by stirrups with the top bars anchor ed in accordance with clause 9.4.3 of 
the Concrete Code, and any top bar extended to resist support moments 
in the adjacent span s hould also comply with the curtailment rules 
specified in the Concrete Code.  Where support by cross beam cannot 
be avoided, the supporting beam and the adjacent internal slabs should be 
adequately designed and properly de tailed for any internal moment, 
torsion, shear and axial force so induced.   
(c) External cantilevered beams should be designed for exposure condition 2 
or higher if appropriate in accordance with the Concrete Code. 
 
Cantilevered Slabs 
 
6. The structural design of cantileve red slabs should satisfy the following 
requirements:- 
(a) The minimum overall thickness should be-- 
(i) 110 mm for span not greater than 500 mm; 
(ii) 125 mm for span greater than 500 mm but not greater than 
750 mm; 
(iii) 150 mm for span greater than 750 mm. 
(b) Any wall supporting the cantilever slab, except that for very small span 
slabs like air-conditioner hoods, should be of sufficient thickness to 
provide the necessary rigidity and to  allow the proper anchorage of the 
main steel reinforcing bars of the cantil evered slabs.  This is in addition 
to any other design consideration that is required for the wall itself. 
(c) Cantilevered slabs should be reinforced with high yield steel bars in both 
faces and in both directions.  Main steel reinforcing bars should be at 
least 10mm diameter and spacing s hould not be greater than 150 mm, 
and the steel area should not be less than 0.25% of the cross-sectional 
area of the structural concrete. 
(d) The main steel reinforcing bars of ca ntilevered slabs should be anchored 
in accordance with clause 9.4.3 of th e Concrete Code, and any top bar 
extended to resist support moments in the adjacent span should also 
comply with the curtailment rules sp ecified in the Concrete Code.  For 
cantilevered slabs with drop at the supporting end, top main steel 
reinforcing bars of not greater than 16 mm in diameter should be used in 
 3
 
 
order that an effective and proper anchorage into the supporting beams 
and internal slab can be developed.  Details of steel reinforcing bars 
should be drawn in a sufficiently la rge scale to indicate clearly the 
connections. 
(e) Consideration and specific deta ils should be provided for -- 
(i) cantilevered slabs continuing around corners of buildings 
due to increase in slab area an d a change in direction of the 
main steel reinforcing bars; 
(ii) the side edge of cantilevered slabs where there is an 
additional load from return pa rapets running parallel to the 
cantilever span direction. 
 
7. The requirements set out in paragraph 6 above do not apply to in-fill slabs 
enclosed by edge beams, or slabs s upported in such a way that they do not 
behave similar to cantilevered slabs. 
8. External cantilevered slabs should satisfy the following requirements:- 
(a) The maximum crack width at the tension face should be limited to 0.1 
mm when carrying out design check under the serviceability limit state or 
the stress of deformed high yield stee l reinforcing bars used should not 
exceed 100 N/mm2 when checking the flexural tension under the working 
load condition. 
(b) Concrete cover to steel reinforcin g bars should be designed for exposure 
condition 2 or higher if appropriate in accordance with the Concrete 
Code.  
 
9. External cantilevered slabs with a span exceeding 750 mm exposed to 
weathering
[1] should satisfy the following additional requirements:- 
(a) The AP/RSE, in conjunction with  the RGBC where appropriate, is 
required to submit a construction report upon completion of the works.  
A Form BA 14 confirming that the works have been carried out in 
accordance with the approved plans and are structurally safe should also 
be submitted; 
(b) Concrete should be water-proof conc rete of characteristic compressive 
strength not less than 35MPa at 28 days; 
(c) All main steel reinforcing bars s hould be hot-dip galvanized to BS EN 
ISO 1461; and 
(d) Water-proof membrane/tanking should be provided and protected by 1:3 
cement sand mortar of 0.65 maximum fr ee water/cement ratio or other 
equivalent means. 
 
 4
 
 
10. The construction report required under pa ragraph 9(a) above should include the 
following: - 
(a) an as-built plan showing -- 
(i) 
the location and dimensions of the members of the 
cantilevered slab; 
(ii)   the direction and gradient  of the fall, where applicable; 
(iii) the location of the drainage outlets, where applicable; 
(iv) the thickness of screeding and finishes; 
(v) the details of the water-proof membrane/tanking, where 
applicable; 
(vi) the location and details of any construction joints; 
(vii) the grade of concrete and steel reinforcing bars; 
(viii) the diameter and spacing of  steel reinforcing bars in the 
cantilevered slab; 
(ix) the date on which the concrete was cast; and 
(x) the concrete cover of the steel reinforcing bars at critical 
positions, as measured by covermeter. 
(b) record photographs of the cantilevered slab and its supporting members 
showing -- 
(i) the condition and arrangement of the in-position steel 
reinforcing bars prior to concreting; and 
(ii) the condition after concreting but before laying of the 
finishes and waterproofing materials. 
 
Maintenance and Repair 
 
11. The structural integrity of cantileve red slab canopy may be impaired rapidly 
should the prevailing adverse conditions persist such as improper use as 
air-conditioner support, lack  of maintenance and repa ir, and mal-functioning of 
drainage facilities. 
 
12. Upon the completion of the construction of a cantilevered slab canopy, the AP 
should coordinate with the RSE and RGBC to prepare documentation on the 
inspection and maintenance of the can tilevered slab canopy, for regular 
maintenance and repair to be arranged by the Incorporated Owners/management 
company.  Routine inspection and main tenance works such as cleaning of 
clogged drain pipes and drainage channe l, and inspection of waterproofing 
system and finishes should be carried out regularly and par ticularly during the 
rainy seasons. 
 
 
(Rev.  09/2012) 
 5
 
Appendix B
(PNRC 27)
CJ
CLEAR
SPAN
WALL/ BEAM
GALVANIZED
STEEL REINFORCING BAR
45°
CLEAR
SPAN
BEAM
CJ
GALVANIZED STEEL
REINFORCING BAR
45°
BEAM
CLEAR
SPAN
GALVANIZED STEEL
REINFORCING BAR
CJ
45°
(i) CONTINUOUS SLAB
(ii) DROP SLAB
(iii) SLAB SUPPORTED AT BEAM TOP
LEGEND:
CJ - CONSTRUCTION JOINT
RECOMMENDED LOCATION OF CONSTRUCTION
JOINT FOR EXPOSED CANTILEVERED SLAB
(Rev.09/2012)
WATER-PROOF CONCRETE