Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 64 
Site Safety Enhancement  
Purpose 
 
 
In recommendation No. 88(e) of its  report, the Construction Industry 
Review Committee recommended that the requi rements for the Site Supervision Plan 
System (SSPS) under the Buildings Ordinance (BO) and the Safety Management System 
(SMS) under the Factories and Industrial Undertakings (Safety Management) Regulation 
(SMR) be co-ordinated to facilitate the compliance efforts of the construction industry.  
This practice note promulgates measures to enhance co-ordination of the two systems. 
 
Site Supervision Plan System 
 
2. The BO is concerned primarily with the safety and stability of buildings, 
building works and streets works, to ensure that the safety of the occupants and the 
public, all persons within and around the construction sites and any adjoining buildings, 
structures and land would not be adversely affected.  The SSPS established under section 
39A of the BO has been implemented since 1997. Under the SSPS, the site supervision 
requirements for any building works or street works are based on the type of works and 
the scale of the works involved.  The Aut horized Person (AP), Re gistered Structural 
Engineer (RSE), Registered Geotechnical E ngineer (RGE) and Regi stered Contractor 
(RC) appointed for the works are each requi red to engage a t eam of Technically 
Competent Persons (TCPs) to supervise the carrying out of the building works or street 
works to ensure that building operations are carried out in a safe manner so as to mitigate 
the risk to all persons within and around the construction site, and to adjoining buildings, 
structures and land. 
 
Safety Management System 
 
3. On the other hand, the Factories a nd Industrial Undertakings Ordinance and 
its subsidiary legislation deal mainly with the safety and health of workers at work. 
Under the SMR, a contractor is required to develop, implement and maintain a SMS, 
which aims at safeguarding workers’ safety and controlling risk of injury arising from 
work activities.  The SMR comes into operation in stages.  During the initial stage 
starting from 1 April 2002, a contractor with a contract value of $100 million or more, 
or having an aggregate of 100 or more wo rkers in a day working on one or more 
construction sites, is required to implement in his SMS the 8 elements in Part 1 and the 
2 elements in Part 2 of Schedule 4 of the SMR and to ensure the carrying out of a safety 
audit in every 6 months.  At the same time,  a contractor having an aggregate of 50 or 
more but less than 100 workers in a day working on a single construction site, or working 
in 2 or more construction sites, is required to implement in his SMS the 8 elements in 
Part 1 of Schedule 4 of the SMR and to ensure the carrying out of a safety review in every 
6 months.  For all contractors, the 4 elements  in Part 3 of the same Schedule have not 
come into operation yet. 
 
/Relationship ….. 
- 2 - 
Relationship between the Two Systems 
 
4. 
The duty holders under the two systems are mostly different. The AP, RSE, 
RGE, RC and their TCPs are duty holders  under the SSPS, whereas, the principal 
contractor, sub-contractors and sub-sub-c ontractors are duty holders under the SMS.  
There is, however, a common duty holder, the main contractor, who is the RC under the 
SSPS and the principal contractor under the SMS. It is considered that the Authorized 
Signatory (AS) of the RC may play a more proactive co-ordinating role in the 
implementation of the two systems. 
 
Enhancement Measures for Co-ordination of SSPS and SMS 
 
5. RCs are advised to co-ordinate the requirements of the SSPS and the SMS 
by taking the following measures: 
 
(a) The RC should include his AS, the AS ’s Representative (RAS) and some of 
his TCPs under the SSPS in the safety committees of the SMS to improve 
inter-system communication. The AS and RAS may chair the safety 
committees at corporate level and site level respectively. 
 
(b) In the development and implementati on of the element of “programme of 
inspection” under the SMS, the RC should consider giving priority to the 
high-risk construction pr ocesses and critical stages of works under the 
SSPS. 
 
(c) While preparing method statements, the AS should also take into account 
the requirements of the element of “e valuation of job related hazards and 
development of safety procedures” under the SMS when this element comes 
into effect, in addition to the re quirements and cons truction sequence 
specified in the approved plans under the SSPS. He may seek advice from 
his TCPs, registered safety auditors and registered safety officers in this 
regard. 
 
(d) The RC should include the “critical stages of works” under the SSPS in the 
programme for the element of “evalu ation of job related hazards and 
development of safety procedures” under the SMS when this element comes 
into effect, to facilitate compliance with both systems. 
 
(e) The AS, RAS and TCP T1 to T3 of the RC under the SSPS should attend 
safety training courses to improve their safety competency and ability in 
managing site safety. 
 
(f) Safety officers and safety supe rvisors under the SMS should attend 
technical training on building construction so as to facilitate inter-stream 
and inter-system communication, co-ordination and harmonization. In this 
respect, the Construction Industry Training Authority, the Institutes of 
Vocational Education and the various  professional bodies have been 
providing relevant training courses and seminars from time to time. 
/(g) …
.. 
- 3 - 
 
(g) Registered safety auditors and safe ty review officers should make reference 
to the approved plans and the associated supervision plan under the SSPS in 
their safety audits or safety reviews for assessing the effectiveness of the 
SMS. 
 
Implementation of Enhancement Measures 
 
6. The above enhancement measures are intended to improve the safety 
standard of the constructi on industry.  The Buildings  Department and Labour 
Department strongly recommend all contract ors to implement these measures with 
immediate effect. 
 ( H W CHEUNG ) 
 Building Authority 
R
ef. : BD GR/1-55/138 
 
First issue   August 2006 (AD/NB2)   
 
Index under :  Site Safety 
   Site Safety Enhancement  