Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 62 
Return on Construction Site Employment Statistics 
 
Introduction  
 
T
his practice note seeks the co-operation of all registered contractors to 
submit “Return on Construction Site Employment ” on the form GF 527A to the Census 
and Statistics Department (C&SD).  The data so collected will be used for compiling the 
accident rate on construction sites and statistics on construction site employment. 
 
Background  
 
2.  Recommendation No. 80 in the Re port of the Construction Industry 
Review Committee calls for the Labour Department (LD) to review the methodology for 
collating the construction safety statistics with a view to developing a more reliable 
mechanism for calculating the accident rates for construction sites.  In accordance with 
the said recommendation, LD has now revi sed the methodology for the calculation of 
accident rates for the construction industry to reflect the site safety performance.  The 
revised methodology will include all the personnel employed by contractors engaged at 
construction sites including the managerial and supervisory staff, in addition to the 
manual workers.  
 
3.  LD has also designed a new form, namely GF 527A, for the collection of 
the required data from contractors.  In addition, the opportunity is taken to include the 
return on site vacancies and the number of employers/self-employed persons engaged at 
the site for compiling statistics on labour demand.   
 
4.  As from 1 January 2005, contr actors undertaking public works projects 
are already required under the Environment,  Transport and Works Bureau Technical 
Circular (Works) No. 4/2005 to submit the form GF 527A to the C&SD every month.   
 
Submission of Form GF 527A 
 
5.  After the successful implementation in public works projects, the C&SD 
considers that it is now the appropriate time to collect the relevant information on private 
sector projects.  In this regard, the Building Authority, on behalf of C&SD, would like 
to request the co-operation of all Registered General Building Contractors (RGBC) and 
Registered Specialist Contractors (RSC) who are involved in private building works to 
submit the same data on the form GF 527A. 
 
6.  A sample of the form GF 527A and the guidelines for submission and 
completion of the form produced by C&SD  are attached at Appendices A and B 
respectively.  The form GF 527A is to be completed in quadruplicate: the original to 
C&SD, the duplicate kept by the AP, the triplicate filed as site record and the 
/quadruplicate ….. 
- 2 - 
 
 
quadruplicate kept by the RGBC/RSC.  The data in the form GF 527A should be 
prepared based on the last full working day of the reporting month, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays, public holidays or days of inclement weather such as strong winds, heavy rains 
or typhoons when the construction activities may be affected.  An example of how to 
determine the last full working day for a month is given in paragraph (c) of the guidelines 
at Appendix B.  
 
7.  Only persons who have worked or e ngaged at the site (including in the site 
office) for three hours or more on the reporting day need to be included for the number 
of persons of the respective category in the form GF 527A.  The data will cover all the 
persons employed by the contractor and his sub-contractors. 
 
8.  The form GF 527A should be comp leted quarterly and returned to the 
C&SD direct within the first two weeks of the month following the reporting months of 
March, June, September and December.  RGBC/RSC are requested to complete the form 
and return to the C&SD direct commencing from the first quarter of 2006. 
 ( H W CHEUNG ) 
 Building Authority
R
ef. : BD GR/1-115/10 
First issue  M
arch 2006  (AD/NB2) 
 
Index under : Form GF 527A 
   Return on Construction Site Employment 
 
Appendix A
(PNRC 62)Return on Construction Site Employment
Original - C&SD (within 2 weeks) Duplicate - Project Office/Authorized Person Triplicate - filed as Site Record Quadruplicate - kept by Contractor
Reference no. in Buildings Department / Contract no.:
Contract title / Contract description:
Name of contractor: (Tel. : )
Nominated sub-contractor  (Tick if applicable)
Site / Contract address:
Name of authorized person / Company of site representative: (Tel. : )
Name of real estate developer / responsible government department: (Tel. : )
Work code for government site only
 1 (If applicable) :
Broad stage of work: (% of completion : )
Current status of the site (Please select one of the following and tick as appropriate box) :
1 Active 4 Under maintenance period (Expiry date (e.g. 31/01/2007): )
2 Work suspended 5 Work completed with maintenance period over / without maintenance period
3 Vacant
Reporting month/year (e.g. 03/2006) :                           Last day of the reporting month 2:
Please insert either the data or '0'.  Do not leave any cell blank.
I.   Number of persons engaged and vacancies on the last day of the reporting month . For official use only
Site No.
(33-47)
IND
(48-53)
Area Status
(54-56) (57)
DCM EN
(58)
(59-62)
JV7
(63-64)
JV8
(65-66)
JV9
(67-68)
Number of persons engaged at site
(i) Manual workers
(ii) Professional / technologist
(iii) Technician
(iv) Other site personnel (e.g. amah and security guards)
 (A) Total number of persons engaged at site
Total Of which: female
 (B) Number of employers / self-employed persons in (A)
 (C) Number of vacancies for manual workers (i.e. excluding items (ii), (iii) and (iv)
above) at site
II.  If there are vacancies in I (C) above, please provide the job title and the number of vacancies.
 (Use a separate sheet if necessary)
Job title (e.g. leveller, truck driver, bricklayer and electrical fitter) Number of
vacancies
 1.
 2.
 3.
 4.
 5.
Completed by contractor/
  contractor's agent 3:
(Name)          (Signature) (Telephone) (Date)
Notes : 1 Please refer to work code in the GF 527 for the same site / contract.
2 Please exclude Saturdays, Sundays, public holidays and days of inclement weather, and advance the reporting day accordingly (i.e. in the order of 31st, 30th, 29th …).
3 Delete as appropriate.
GF 527A
Appendix B 
(PNRC 62) 
 
Guidelines for Completion and Submission of GF 527A 
 
 
A. Instructions  
 Form Completion  
(a) For government sites, one GF 527A shall be completed for each and every 
contract monthly.  The contractor shall complete and submit both the GF 527A 
and GF 527 together for a contract. 
 
(b) For non-government sites, the contr actor shall complete the GF 527A on 
site/contract basis for the month of March, June, September and December. 
 
(c) The data for the entries of the number of persons engaged in each category of 
site personnel, vacancies and employers/self-employed persons in the GF 527A 
will be made based on the last full working day of the reporting month, which 
will exclude Saturdays, Sundays, public holidays or days of inclement weather 
such as strong winds, heavy rains or typhoons when the construction activities 
may be affected.  For example, if the last day of a month is 30th and is a 
Saturday, then the last full working day of the month will be 29th (Friday) as 
Saturday is considered not a full worki ng day.  In case the weather on 29th is 
adverse, then the last full working day of the month will be advanced to 28
th 
(Thursday), and so on and so forth. 
 
(d) Only persons who have worked or enga ged at the site (including in the site 
office) for three hours or more on the reporting day will be included in the 
entries for the number of persons of the respective category in the GF 527A. 
The data will cover all the persons employed by the contractor and his sub 
contractors, except for those employed by the nominated sub-contractors of 
government sites, who will complete a separate GF 527A and submit to the 
principal contractor for consolidation. 
 
(e) If there are vacancies on the reporting day, the contractor shall enter the job 
title and the number of vacancies for each of the trades. 
 
(f) For government sites, a work code will be entered in the form for each 
contract, which is assigned by the project office and will be adopted throughout 
the contract period.  If a contract i nvolves more than one major work type, 
then the work code for the dominant work type will be adopted.  The work 
code for both the GF 527A and GF 527 should be the same for a contract. 
 
(g) The contractor shall check and si gn the GF 527A before submission.  
/Form ….. 
- 1 -
Form Submission  
(h) The GF 527A shall be completed in quadruplicate for submission to the 
relevant parties: the original sent to the Census and Statistics Department 
(C&SD), the duplicate kept by the project  office or authorized person, the 
triplicate filed as site record and the quadruplicate kept by the contractor.  
For Government Sites  
(i) The completed GF 527A shall be submitted to the client’s most senior 
representative on site (the client’s site representative) within the first four 
working days of the month following the reporting month.  
 
(j) The client ’s site representative will check that the data provided in the forms 
are in order, except for the numbers of vacancies and employers/self-employed 
persons, which are the contractor’s responsibility to ensure their accuracy.  If 
necessary, the client ’s site representative may request the contractor to 
substantiate the data provided in the forms.  Any discrepancy found will be 
notified to the contractor immediately for rectification.  
 
(k) The client’s site representative will complete the checking of the forms for 
submission to the relevant parties specified in (h) above within the first two 
weeks of the month following the reporting month.  
 
For Non-Government Sites  
(l) The completed GF 527A will be submitted to the relevant parties specified in 
(h) above within the first two weeks of the month following the reporting 
month.  
 
 
B. Explanatory Notes  
 
(1) Manual workers include all persons  engaged in manual work at the 
construction site, who are either directly employed by the main contractor or 
called upon by sub-contractors or gang leaders.  They include skilled, 
semi-skilled and general workers.  
 
(2) A professional/technologist is a person who applies his professional skills to a 
wide range of technical activities and is able to use his knowledge and 
experience to initiate practical developments.  He is expected to accept a high 
degree of responsibility and, in many cas es, to push forward the boundaries of 
knowledge in his particular field.  A professional/technologist should 
normally have received education and trai ning equivalent to that required for 
corporate membership of a professional in stitution, e.g. architects, engineers 
and surveyors.  
 
/(3) ….. 
- 2 -
(3)  A technician is one who occupies a position between a 
professional/technologist and a skilled worker.  His education, training and 
practical experience should enable him to apply proven techniques to solve 
technical problems.  He is expected to carry a measure of technical 
responsibility, normally under the guidan ce of a professional/technologist, 
e.g. clerk of works, site agent and site foremen. 
 
(4)  Other site personnel are persons othe r than those in (1), (2) and (3) above 
stationed/worked at the site, e.g. general clerical staff, amah and security 
guards . 
 
(5)  An employer/a self-employed person is  a person who works for profit or fees 
in his own business. He is not employed by anyone.  However, he may 
employ one or more persons to work for him. 
 
(6)  Vacancies refer to unfilled job openings which are immediately available, and 
for which active recruitment steps are being taken on the reporting date.   
(3/2006) 
- 3 -