Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 6 
 
 
Demolition Works 
Measures for Public Safety 
 
 
Continuous Supervision 
 
 Registered specialist contractors (RSCs) appointed to carry out 
demolition works are required under section 9(6) of the Buildings Ordinance (BO) and 
regulation 41 of the Building (Administration) Regulations (B(A)R) to give continuous 
supervision to the works in accordance with, inter alia, their  supervision plans prepared 
in compliance with the Technical Memorandum for Supervision Plans 2009 issued under 
section 39A of the BO.  
 
Supervision Plan 
 
2.  A supervision plan as defined under section 2(1) of the BO is required to 
be lodged with the Building Authority (BA) by an authorized person (AP) prior to or at 
the time of application for consent to commence demolition works except for works 
which satisfy all of the criteria set out in paragraph 11 of the Technical Memorandum for 
Supervision Plans 2009.  RSC shall be responsible for preparing the respective part of the 
plan in accordance with the Code of Practice for Site Supervision 2009 (2021 Edition) 
issued by the Buildings Department (BD).  
 
3. The technically competent persons (TCPs) appointe d as shown in the 
supervision plan shall possess the required qualifications, competence and experience 
relevant to the demolition works.  In this regard, Hong Kong  Institute of Construction 
(HKIC) has been organising training courses, such as the “Demolition of Building Course 
for Supervisors/Foremen.”  RSC should draw the attention of their supervisory personnel 
to the training courses and encourage them to attend. 
 
Personal Supervision 
 
4. Personal supervision by a TCP appointed by RSC is required under 
regulation 8 of the Building (Demolition Works) Regulations (B(DW)R) in respect of the 
demolition works.  You are also required under regulation 8(3) of the B(DW)R, to post a 
notice (Form BA20) in a prominent position on site specifying the name of the appointed 
TCPs . 
 
Execution and Supervision of Demolition Works 
 
5. When carrying out demolition works, reference should be made to the 
Code of Practice for Demolition of Buildings 2004 (Demolition Code) issued by BD.  
RSCs are required to observe the requirements on the provision of a full time site engineer 
for demolition of complex structures, debris disposal and management system, and other 
execution and supervision particulars as stipulated in the Demolition Code.  
 
/6. … 
- 2 - 
 
 
6. Where a site engineer is required to be appointed, he/she should be 
directly responsible to the RSC .  Any subsequent change in the appointment of the site 
engineer, RSC should immediately report to AP/registered structural engineer (RSE)/ 
registered geotechnical engineer (RGE) and the BA. 
 
Video Record of Demolition Works 
 
7. Video cameras to record the entire demolition process should be provided 
by the RSC for all types of demolition sites.  The video cameras should be installed at 
strategic locations agreed by AP/RSE/RGE and be securely protected from being 
tampered with so that the entire demolition process including the movement of debris and 
the overall sequence of demolition can be recorded for reference and review purposes.  
While the exact number of cameras is to be determined by AP/RSE/RGE, there should be 
at least one video camera for each site.  The location of the video cameras should be 
shown in the demolition plan. 
 
8.  The video records should be kept by RSC for at least 14 days. 
 
Appointment of Operator of Powered Mechanical Plant or Equipment 
 
9. The use of powered mechanical plant or equipment for demolition works 
carries risks and particular care should be taken.  In certain circumstances, it may even be 
unsafe and should not be allowed, for example, the use of a crane and hammer in a densely 
populated area.  To ensure public safety, the operator of powered mechanical plant or 
equipment used in demolition work shall meet the requirements as specified in regulation 
9(3) of B(DW)R. 
 
10. For the purpose of regulation 9(3)(b) of the B(DW)R, an operator should 
have completed a training course in “Demolition of Building Course for Plant Operators” 
organised by the HKIC and obtained the relevant certificate.  Equivalent training and 
certificate issued by a recognised examining body may also be favourably considered by 
the BA for meeting the requirement. 
 
11. An application for consent to the commencement of demolition works 
must be accompanied by the personal particulars, qualifications and experience of the 
operators of an y powered mechanical plant or equipment proposed to be used in the 
demolition works in accordance with regulation 31 of the B(A)R.  RSC are advised to 
provide the necessary information to the AP for submission to the BA.  The information 
to be submitted should include the operators’ name in Chinese and English, Hong Kong 
identity card number, date of birth, address, telephone number and documents verifying 
the operators’ qualifications and experience. 
 
12. The BA will vet the particulars of the plant operat ors and advise AP on 
the suitability of the operators as soon as possible, having regard to their qualifications, 
experience and training. 
 
 
 
 
 
/13. … 
- 3 - 
 
 
13. Where there is a change in the appointment of the operator, RSC is 
required under regulation 22(7) of the B(A)R to notify the BA within 7 days of the change 
and to provide the BA with the personal particulars, qualifications and experience of the 
new operator. 
 
Danger from Fire or Explosion 
 
14. Dangerous and hazardous materials left by the previous occupants may 
cause risk of fire or explosion during demolition operation through the leakage or 
accumulation of gas or vapour.  RSC for demolition works should ensure all inflammable 
goods are removed from site and any other flammable goods are stored in proper storage 
facilities.  When suspected dangerous and hazardous materials are encountered in the 
course of demolition, RSC for demolition works may seek assi stance from relevant 
government departments.  All parties are drawn to the attention of the provisions in 
regulation 6 of the B(DW)R. 
 
Protection of Drainage System 
 
15. All sewer and drainage connections should be properly sealed before 
commencement of demolition.  Regulation 3(2)(b) of the B(DW) refers. 
 
Safety and Convenience of Third Parties 
 
16. Proper protection and safe passage for the public must be provided at all 
times by the erection and maintenance of suitable hoardings, covered walkways, gantries 
and catch platforms. 
  
17. Every effort must be made to minimise any nuisance to the public arising 
from dust, noise and vibration. 
 
Certification on Completion of Demolition Works 
 
18.  Within 7 days of the completion of the demolition works, RSC should  
certify that the works have been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the BO 
and regulations in Form BA14A/Form BA14B
1.  The specified forms can be downloaded 
from the BD website www.bd.gov.hk. 
 
Minor Works Relating to Demolition Works 
 
19. Under the Minor Works Control System (MWCS), certain minor 
building works relating to demolition works have been designated as minor works and 
may be carried out under the simplified requirements as an alternative to obtaining prior 
approval and consent under the BO.  Reference can be made to Schedule 1 of the Building 
(Minor Works) Regulation and Practice Note for Registered Contractors 71 regarding the 
list of minor works items and the simplified requirement respectively. 
 
 
/Streamlined … 
                                                 
1  RSC should consult AP and RSE regarding the streamlined procedures for fast track acceptance 
of completion of demolition works prior to the submission of Form BA14B. 
- 4 - 
 
 
Streamlined Procedures for Carrying out Minor Works before Demolition of 
Buildings  
 
20. Before demolition of a building, minor building works such as the 
removal of unauthorised building works, projecting structures and windows, of the parent 
buildings for various purposes including the installation of precautionary measures and 
formation of openings in floor slabs to convey debris are usually required.  To facilitate 
these works, in addition to the staged consent procedures of applying separate consent for 
the commencement of these works and the procedures under MWCS for those falling 
within the definition of minor works, AP may adopt the streamlined procedures as 
detailed in Appendix A to carry out such works.  
 
21. Similar practice notes have been issued  to AP, RSE and RGE on 
demolition works and related subjects.  It is important that RSC should consult AP, RSE 
and RGE on the contents of these practice notes for application to individual sites. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
         ( YU Po-mei, Clarice ) 
    Building Authority 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ref. : BD GP/BREG/DW/1 (VII) 
 
First issue   May 1982 
Last revision   January 2021  
This revision   September 2022 (AD/NB1) (Paragrap hs 2 &  18 and Appendix A 
amended) 
- 1 - 
 
Appendix A 
  (PN RC 6) 
 
 
Streamlined Procedures for Carrying out  
Minor Works (MW) before Demolition of Buildings 
 
 
 The following streamlined procedures for MW to be carried out before 
demolition of parent building are applicable if the authorized person, registered 
structural engineer and registered specialist contractor  1 (Project Team) responsible for 
the demolition of the parent building are also responsible for such MW. 
 
Notification of Commencement  
 
2. Form MW01 for the MW to be carried out before de molition of the 
parent building should be submitted not less than 7 days prior to their commencement, 
together with the application for approval of demolition plans for the parent building, by 
the same Project Team.  The demolition plans should indicate such MW including a 
statement that protective and precautionary measures in accordance with the Technical 
Guidelines on Minor Works Control System are to be provided. 
 
3. Photographs showing the locations of the proposed MW are not required 
if such have been  included in the building appraisal report submitted with the 
demolition plans. 
 
Certification of Completion 
 
4. Form MW02 on completion of the MW should be submitted together 
with the Form BA14A /Form BA14B  for completion of demolition of the parent 
building by the same Project Team.  Photographs showing the MW as completed are 
not required if the whole parent building is demolished subsequent to the completion of 
the MW. 
 
5. If such MW are completed before the submission of Form BA10 for 
demolition of the parent building, Form MW02 should be separately submitted together 
with the necessary documents and information under the MW Control System to N ew 
Buildings Division 1 of the Buildings Department. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(9/2022) 
                                                 
1  The MW should be carried out by the regi stered specialist contractor (demolition works) 
(RSC(D)) who is qualified to carry out such either as a registered general building contractor 
or registered MW contractor for the relevant classes and types of MW.  The authorized 
signatory (AS) from the RSC (D) supervising the demolition of the parent building should 
also be the AS (registered with the relevant classes types of MW) supervising such MW. 
 