 
Buildings Department Practice Note  for Registered Contractors 71 
Mi
nor Works Control System 
The Minor Works Control System (MWCS) aims to facilitate building 
owners and occupants in carrying out small -scale building works safely and lawfully 
through simplified statutory procedures and thereby improve the quality of such 
building works and building safety in Hong Kong, viz. without the need to obtain prior 
approval of plans and consent to the commencement of such works from the Building 
Authority (BA).   
Classification of Minor Works 
2. A total of 187 items of minor building works have been designated as 
minor works under the MWCS.  These m inor works are classified into three classes 
according to their nature, scale and complexity as well as the risk to safety they pose: 
(a) Class I minor works  (a total of 58 items) are relatively more 
complicated minor works, e.g. installation of internal staircases 
connecting two floors;  
(b)
 Class II minor works  (a total of 68 items) are comparatively less 
complex works, e.g. repair of external walls; and  
(c) C
lass III minor works (a total of 61 items) cover small -scale minor 
works, mostly carried out in household settings, e.g. erection of 
supporting frames for air-conditioners. 
3. Th
e size, location and respective criter ia of each item of minor works are 
set out in Schedule 1 to the Building (Minor Works) Regulation (B(MW)R).  
The Simplified Requirements  
4. T he simplified requirements of the MWCS are tabulated as follows:   
/Minor ... 
- 2 - 
 
Minor works
involved
  
 
 Cla ss I Class II Class III 
Requirements 
Appointment 
(of the appointed 
person) 
 Prescribed building 
professionals
(1)  (PBP) to 
design and supervise the 
works; and 
 Prescribed reg
 istered 
contractors(2)  (PRC) to 
carry out the works 
 PRC to prepare and submit th e 
plans and documents, to 
supervise and carry out the 
works 
Submission AP/RI/PRC PRC 
 Notice of commencement of works; and 
 Certificate of completion of works 
PRC 
 Notice and 
certificate of 
completion of 
works 
Note(1) : PBP means an authorized perso n (AP) and (if required), a registered structural 
engineer (RSE) / a registered geotechnical engineer (RGE) or a registered inspector 
(RI) (according to section 27 of the B(MW)R, RI assumes the role of an AP of the 
prescribed repair or any associated demolition works that are Class I minor works). 
Note(2) : PRC means a r egistered general building contractor (RGBC), registered specialist 
contractor or registered minor works contractor (RMWC). 
5. The workflow of the simplified requirements and the documents required 
to be submitted are summarised in Appendix A. 
6. S om
e requirements and general guidance to streamline and expedite the 
processing of submissions are provided in  Appendix B.  The specified forms and 
standard forms for use under the simplified requirements are listed in Appendix C.  A 
sample plan of Class III minor works and the recommended format of photo page are 
provided in Appendix F. 
General Reminders 
7. U
 nder
 section 57 of the B(MW)R, the PRC appointed in respect of any 
Class I or Class II minor works is required to keep on site copies of all prescribed plans, 
details of the works and supervision plan (as required) submitted under the simplified 
requirements.  The PRC is also reminded to keep on site a copy of the acknowledgement 
letter from the Buildings Department (BD) for the notice of commencement of works 
for inspection by BD officers. 
8. I
 f t
he minor works involve common parts of a building, the PRC should 
remind “the person who arranged for the works to be carr ied out” to pay attention to the 
civil liabilities under the deed of mutual covenant of the building.  The PRC should also 
notify the management office concerned, the Incorporated Owners or the related 
owner(s) about the minor works to be carried out. 
9. T
 he
 PRC should take appropriate measures to ensure the proper disposal of 
construction waste. 
/10. … 
_____
_____
_____
_____
- 3 - 
 
10. Whe re a supervision plan is required, the PBP and PRC are reminded to 
comply with the requirements under the Technical Memorandum for Supervision Plans  
and the Code of Practice for Site Supervision. 
11. When the PRC ceases to be appointed in respect of any Class II minor 
works, he should submit the specified form to notify the BA within 7 days after the date 
of the cessation.  In case the PRC ceases to be appointed in respect of any Class I minor 
works, the specified form should be delivered to the AP within 7 days after the date of 
the cessation for the AP’s submission to the BA. 
Minor Works Relating to Signboards 
12. In order to facilitate the distinction of the signboards erected or altered 
under the simplified requirements from those unauthori sed signboards, it is 
recommended that the minor works submission numbers be displayed on the signboards 
erected or altered under the simplified requirem ents.  Standards and guidelines on 
display of these numbers are provided in  Appendix D.  Similar arrangement is also 
recommended for those signboards which have been erected or altered with prior 
approval and consent from the BA as set out in Practice Note for Authorized Persons, 
Registered Structural Engineers and Registered Geotechnical Engineers  (PNAP) APP-
126. 
13. Before commencement of Class III minor works relating to signboards, the 
PRC is recommended to submit a prior request in the F orm MW32 to th e BA for 
assignment of a minor works submission number to be displayed on the signboard 
concerned. 
Minor Works Relating to Radio Base Station, Antenna or Transceiver  
14. For minor works relating to radio base station, or antenna or transceiver , 
the PRC should make reference to Appendix E for more details. 
Household Minor Works Validation Scheme , Signboard Validation Scheme and 
Minor Amenity Feature Validation Scheme 
15. The Household Minor Works Validation Scheme (HMWVS) was launched 
upon the ful l implementation of the MWCS to allow validation of certain types of  
unauthorised minor amenity structures, viz. metal supporting frames for air-conditioning 
units or water cooling towers, drying racks and small canopies  erected or carried out 
before 31 December 2010 and as specified in Part 2 of Schedule 3 to the B(MW)R as 
prescribed building or building works  (PBW).  The Minor Amenity Feature Validation 
Scheme (MAFVS) was launched on 1 September 2021 which allows validation of 
another 21 items of unauthor ised minor amenity features
1  erected or carried out before 
these types of features designated as minor works under the MWCS on 1 September 
2020.  The list of PBW in Part 4 of Schedule 3 to the B(MW)R refers.  
/16. … 
                     
1  Including supporting structures or metal casings for building services  installations, 
supporting structures for radio base stations, supporting frames for air -conditioning units or 
for light fittings, solid fence walls, mesh fences or metal railings, poles, metal gates, 
canopies, retractable awnings, trellises, and metal ventilation ducts or any associated 
supporting frames. 
_____
_____
- 4 - 
16. Unde
r section 39C of the Building s Ordinance ( BO) and sections 62 and 
62A of the B(MW)R, an AP, RSE, RI,  RGBC or RMWC 2 can be appointed to inspect 
and certify that the PBW are structurally safe and comply with the  BO3 .   Upon 
certification, no enforcement action will be taken against the  PBW unless their safety 
conditions have changed.  Alteration and/or strengthening works may be carried out 
before such structures can be certified.  A flow chart showing the steps of processing the 
submissions and the documents required to be submitted under the HMWVS and the 
MAFVS are provided in Appendix A. 
17.  A similar validation scheme namely Signboard Validation Scheme  was 
launched on 2 September 2013 for validation of certain unauthorised signboards as 
specified in Part 3 of Schedule 3 to the B(MW)R.  The details of this scheme is 
provided in PNAP APP-155. 
No Referral of Plans 
18. Unlike the centrali sed processing of building plans, the documents 
submitted to the BD for the carrying out of minor works under the simplified 
requirements and for the inspection and certification of PBW will not be referred to 
other government departments.  If the proposed minor works involves the jurisdictions 
of other government departments, the PBP  or PRC should consult and obtain necessary 
approval or consent from the relevant government departments accordingly. 
19. However, upon receipt of a minor works submission for notice of 
commencement of Class I and Class II minor works involving spread footing, 
excavation or underground drainage works within Area Number 3 of  the scheduled 
areas in Schedule 5 to the BO, BD would forward a copy of the minor works submission 
to the MTR Corporation Limited ( MTRCL).  The MTRCL would then convey their 
comments to the PBP/PRC directly.   The PBP/PRC shall inform the MTRCL and 
obtain their agreement before commencement of the minor works.  Section 27 of the 
Railways Ordinance (Cap. 519) or section 15 of the Mass Transit Railway (Land 
Resumption and Related Provisions) Ordinance (Cap. 276) will be invoked in case the 
proposed minor wor ks would be incompatible with any works for the construction, 
maintenance or improvement of the railway or with the operation thereof. 
No Submission Fee Required 
20. All submissions under the simplified requirements and for the inspection 
and certification of PBW are free of charge.   
/Technical … 
                     
2  See Appendix A for details of RMWC that may be appointed for  the HMWVS and  the 
MAFVS. 
3  Except section 14(1) of the BO and regulation 25 of the Building (Administration) 
Regulations. 
- 5 - 
Technical Guidelines on Minor Works Control System 
21. The Technical Guidelines on Minor Works Control System published by 
the BD, provides detailed guidance for the registered contractors and practitioners in the 
building industry on compliance with the simplified requirements .  It is available at BD 
website www.bd.gov.hk under the “Guidelines” category in the “Codes, design manuals 
and guidelines” page of the “Resources” section. 
22. A similar practice note is  issued to all authorized persons, r egistered 
structural engineers and registered geotechnical engineers. 
( YU Tak-cheung ) 
Building Authority 
Ref. : BD GP/BORD/113 (II) 
First issue  December 2010 
Last revision  December 2020 
This revision  September  2021 (AD/CS) (Paragraphs 15 to 17 and Appendices A and C 
amended) 
 Appendix A 
(PNRC 71) 
Administrative Procedures for Processing Minor Works Submissions and 
Submissions for the Inspection and Certification of  
Prescribed Building or Building Works 
Processing of Minor Works Submissions 
1. General steps of processing the minor works submissions are as follows: 
Any irregularities found in 
preliminary check2?
Return the submission to the 
appointed person with reason
Issue a letter3 to the appointed 
person to acknowledge receipt 
of the submission
Submit required 
documents1
Appointed 
person
Building 
Authority
Yes
No
Note1 : The PBP/PRC is required to keep all relevant documents, such as records of site 
supervision, structural calculations, test reports and certificates, etc. and provide to 
the BA when required.  Section 56 of the B(MW)R refers. 
Note
2 : The preliminary check includes checking for completeness of the submitted 
information and verification of registration status of the appointed person. 
Note
3 : A unique submission number, for e xample, MW101200001, will be issued with the 
acknowledgement letter.  The submission number assigned is the identification for 
the whole submission, which should be used in all future correspondences. 
- 1 - 
Documents Required to be Submitted 
Classe
s I & II 
Notice of Commencement of Works 
(a) specified form4 ; 
(b) photographs; 
(c) coloured prescribed plans and details of the works; 
(d) supervision plan as required by the TM (for Class I only); 
and 
(e) other relevant documents5 (if any). 
Certificate of Completion of Works 
(a) specified form4 ; 
(b) photographs; 
(c) revised coloured prescribed plans and details of the works 
showing the minor deviations (if any, refer to paragraph 2 
for details); and 
(d) other relevant documents6 (if any). 
Class III 
Notice and Certificate of Completion of Works 
(a) specified form4 ; 
(b) photographs; 
(c) coloured plans or description of works; and 
(d) other relevant documents6 (if any). 
Note4 : The specified forms are listed in both Appendix A to  PNRC 2 and Appendix C  to 
this PNRC. 
Note5 : e.g. geotechnical assessment, ground investigation report, structural calculations, test 
reports and certificates, etc. 
Note6 : e.g. schedule of building materials and products, test reports and certificates, etc.  
Mi
nor Deviations of Completed Minor Works and Additional Minor Works Items 
2. A fter receiving BD ’s acknowledgement letter for the “ Notice of 
Commencement of Works ”, there may be a need for the appointed person to slightly 
amend his proposal to suit the actual site situation.  If the minor deviations from the 
submitted p rescribed plans and details of the works  do not affect the original design 
assumptions and still tally with the descriptions (including reduction in quantity) of the 
submitted minor works items, the appointed person may submit the revised plans and 
details with the “Certificate of Completion of Works” after completion of the works. 
3. H
owever, if the change affects the original design assumptions; or does not 
tally with the descriptions (including increase in quantity) of the submitted minor works 
items; or involve s additional minor works items,  a new “Notice of Commencement of 
Works” should be submitted to the BA not less than 7 days before commencement of 
the works.  To simplify the submission , the specified form for additional minor works 
items can be us ed to incorporate the additional items into the same submission.  Other 
than the specified form, the documents required to be submitted are similar to those 
submitted with the “Notice of Commencement of Works ”, and all the proposed minor 
works (including t he additional minor works items ) should be coloured  on the revised 
prescribed plans and details, with those additional items delineated  for easy 
identification. 
- 2 - 
Processing Submissions for the Inspection and Certification of Prescribed Building 
or Building Works (PBW) under the Household Minor Works Validation Scheme 
(HMWVS) and the Minor Amenity Feature Validation Scheme (MAFVS) 
4. The following flow chart shows the steps of processing the submissions for 
the inspection and certification of PBW and the documents required to be submitted:  
Note7 :  Under the HMWVS, the appointed person for inspection and certification of the 
respective PBW should be an AP, RSE, RI, RGBC or RMWC registered for the 
corresponding type or item of Class III minor works.   
Yes 
 
 
Yes 
Carry out site inspection 
No 
 No 
 
 
Yes 
 
Yes 
 
No 
 
Within 14 days after completion of the 
inspection and, if alteration/strengthening 
works are involved, within 14 days after 
completion of such minor works,  
 
submit Form MW06-1, MW06-2 or  
MW06-3 to the BA,  
 
with photographs and descriptions  
showing the physical conditions of the PBW 
as inspected, and colour plans or description 
of minor works (if any), 
 
to certify that the PBW are  
structurally safe and comply with the BO 10.  
 
Yes 
Return the submission 
to the appointed 
person with reason  
Advise “the person who 
arrange for the inspection” to 
arrange 
alteration/strengthening 
works to the structure by PRC8 
under the simplified 
requirements9 before  
re-inspection 
Issue a letter to the appointed person to 
acknowledge receipt of the submission 
Appoint PRC 8 to carry out alteration/ 
strengthening works to the structure 
under the simplified requirements 9. 
No 
 
No 
 
Appointed Person7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Building Authority 
Person who arranged 
for the inspection  
Is the structure  
found to be PBW? 
Is the PBW 
structurally safe? 
Any irregularities found in 
preliminary check 2? 
Are alteration / 
strengthening works 
feasible? 
Is the structure non-
concrete canopy projecting 
≤ 750 mm? 
Advise “the person who arranged for 
the inspection” that the scheme is 
not applicable 
 
 Appoint prescribed building 
professional/ registered  
contractor to inspect the 
unauthorised structure  
- 3 - 
Under the MAFVS, the appointed person for inspection and certification of the PBW 
falling within the description of a corresponding Class I minor works item should be 
an AP if the PBW is a specified construction under section 37(4) of the B(MW)R; or 
an AP and an RSE if the PBW is not a specified construction under section 37(4) of 
the B(MW)R. 
Under the MAFVS, the appointed person for inspection and certification of the PBW 
falling within the description of a corresponding Cl ass II or III minor works item 
should be an AP, RSE, RI, RGBC or RMWC registered for that class and type or item 
of minor works. 
Note
8 :  All alteration/strengthening works must be carried out by an RGBC or RMWC 
registered for that class and type or item of minor works. 
Note
9 :  If the alteration/strengthening works involve Class I or II minor works, the appointed 
PBP and/or PRC should follow the simplified requirements to submit Form MW01 or 
MW03 to notify the BA of the commencement of the minor works at  least 7 days 
before carrying out the minor works. 
Note
10  : Except section 14(1) of the BO and regulation 25 of the Building (Administration) 
Regulations. 
Min
or Amendments to the Submitted Specified Forms, Plans and Documents 
5. The administrative pro cedures mentioned in PNAP ADM -14 are not 
applicable to the submissions of minor works and the inspection and certification of 
PBW.  However, minor amendments by t he PBP or PRC  on the submitted specified 
forms, plans and other documents may be arranged at B D, depending on the 
circumstances of individual cases. 
(Rev. 9/2021) 
- 4 - 
Appendix B 
(PNRC 71) 
Requirements and Guidelines for Plans and Documents 
Submitted under the Minor Works Control System 
To facilitate the processing of plans and documents submitted under the 
simplified requirements of the Minor Works Control System, the following requirements 
and guidelines should be met: 
1. Every plan and section of minor works must be drawn to a ratio of not less than 
1:100.  Every block plan must be drawn to a ratio of not less than 1:500, B(MW)R 
section 38 refers. 
2. Photographs to be submitted should clearly show the physical conditions of the 
premises immediately before the commencement and after the completion of minor 
works, B(MW)R sections 30(b), 31(b), 32(b), 33(b), 34(b), 35(b) and 36(c) refer.  
The “before” photographs are intended to prove that the proposed minor works 
have not been commenced before the minor works submission while the “ after” 
photographs are to facilitate the identification of the completed works, particularly 
in cases of Class III minor works which may n ot be accompanied with plans  
showing the minor works.  Generally, 4R-size photographs are acceptable for these 
purposes.  The “before” and “after” photographs should be taken from the same 
angle to facilitate the understanding and comparison of the site situation.  A mark 
should be indicated on plans showing the angle of photo- taking with photo 
numbers. 
 3.
  For
 minor works associated with building and drainage  repairs of an entire 
building, the prescribed building professional (PBP)  or prescribed registered 
contractor (PRC), as the case may be,  should clearly indicate on the prescribed 
plans the details and locations of the  repair works involved.  Wide-angled 
photographs showing extensive areas of the  external elevations, drainage system 
and premises involved are acceptable.  It is not necessary to submit close-up 
photographs showing every spot or location  of the minor works if details and 
location of which have already been clearly indicated on the prescribed plans. 
4. The AP should provide clearly the location and address of the minor works or the 
prescribed building or building works on plans and documents.  The address of the 
premises shown on the “Demand for Rates and/or Government Rent” issued by the 
Rating and Valuation Department is recommended to be used. 
5. All supplementary documents should be submitted with the standard form MW33. 
6. Coloured plan not larger than A3 size is recommended. 
7. The PBP shall refer to paragraphs (1) – (3) in Appendix A to PNAP ADM-10 for 
general guidelines on drawing  standards, except  that paragraph 3(i)  is only 
applicable to a plan larger than A3 size. 
- 1 - 
* For effective communication, the PBP and PRC should ensure that their contact 
information as recorded in the Registration Unit of the BD is correct and updated. 
(Rev. 6/2012) 
- 2 - 
 Appendix C 
(PNRC 71) 
List of Specified Forms and Standard Forms under the 
Minor Works Control System 
The specified forms and standard forms for use  under the Minor Works 
Control System  are listed in the following table.  The y can be downloaded  from the  
website of the Buildings Department at https://www.bd.gov.hk, or obtained from the 
General Enquiry and Receipt Counter of the Buildings Department on G/F, Buildings 
Department Headquarters, North Tower, West Kowloon G overnment Offices, 11 Hoi 
Ting Road, Yau Ma Tei, Kowloon during office hours. 
Specified Forms: 
Form No. Title 
MW01 Notice of Commencement of Minor Works under the Simplified 
Requirements (with Prescribed Building Professionals Appointed) 
MW02 Certificate o f Completion of Minor Works under the Simplified 
Requirements (with Prescribed Building Professionals Appointed) 
MW03 Notice of Commencement of Minor Works under the Simplified 
Requirements (without Prescribed Building Professional Appointed) 
MW04 Certificate o f Completion of Minor Works under  the Simplified 
Requirements (without Prescribed Building Professional Appointed) 
MW05 Notice and Certificate of Completion of Class III Minor Works under 
the Simplified Requirements 
MW06-1 
Notice of Inspection and Certification of Prescribed Building or 
Building Works and Certificate of Completion of the Associated 
Alteration or Strengthening Works involving Class I Minor Works  
(Minor Amenity Feature Validation Scheme) 
MW06-2 
Notice of Inspection and Certifica tion of Prescribed Building or 
Building Works and Certificate of Completion of the Associated 
Alteration or Strengthening Works involving Class II Minor Works  
(Minor Amenity Feature Validation Scheme) 
MW06-3 
Notice of Inspection and Certification of Presc ribed Building or 
Building Works and Certificate of Completion of the Associated 
Alteration or Strengthening Works involving Class III Minor Works  
(Household Minor Works Validation Scheme or Minor Amenity Feature 
Validation Scheme) 
- 1 - 
Specified Forms (cont’d): 
Form No. Title 
MW07 
Notice of Change in Appointment of Registered Structural Engineer, 
Registered Geotechnical Engineer or Prescribed Registered Contractor  
under the Simplified Requirements 
MW08 Notice of Change in Appointment of Authorized Person or Registered 
Inspector under the Simplified Requirements 
MW09 
Notice 
of Nomination by Prescribed Building Professional Appointed of 
Another Prescribed Building Professional to act in his place for the 
period of temporary inability to act under the simplified requirements 
MW10 Notice of
 Prescribed Registered Contractor on Ceasing to be Appointed 
under the Simplified Requirements 
MW11 
Notice of C ommencement of Additional Minor Works under the 
Simplified Requirements (with Prescribed Building Professiona ls 
Appointed) 
MW12 
Notice of C om mencement of Additional Minor Works under the 
Simplified Requirements (without Prescribed Building Professional  
Appointed) 
Standard Fo
rms: 
Form No. Title 
MW31 Notice of Prescribed Building Professional on Ceasing to be Appointed 
or N
omina
ted under the Simplified Requirements 
MW32 
Request for Submission Number f or C lass III Minor Works Relating to 
the Erection or Alteration of Signboard under the Simplified 
Requir
ements 
MW33 Submission of Supplementary Documents or Inf ormatio n under the 
Simplified
 Requirements 
PR1 For Attachment of P hotog raphs showing the Conditions of the Minor 
Works 
PR2 For 
Attachment of A3 Plans 
PR3 For Attachment of A4 Plans 
PR4 For Attachment of Structural Calculations 
- 2 - 
Standard Forms (cont’d): 
Form No. Title 
PR5 For Attachment of Supervision Plan  for Class I Minor Works 
PR6 For Atta chment of S afety Inspection R eport and/or O ther Related 
Docum
ents 
 (Rev. 9/2021) 
- 3 - 
BD 2/9876/10 
BD 2-3/9876/10(6) 
MW101212345 
Min.  
35mm  
MW101254321 
Min.  
35mm  
 
 Appendix D 
(PNRC 71) 
Standards and Guidelines on  
Display of Minor Works Submission Number or  
BD Reference Number on Signboards 
Registered Minor Works Contractors and Registered General Building 
Contractors are strongly recommended to display minor works submission numbers and 
BD reference numbers on signboards erected or altered under the simplified requirements 
and signboards erected or altered with prior approval and consent from the BA 
respectively so as to distinguish them from unauthorized signboards.  The standards and 
guidelines for displaying such numbers are as follows:  
1. The letters and digits  should be in black colour with a white background in the 
following cases: 
(i) in case of a signboard erected under the simplified requirements, the minor  
works submission number should be displayed, e.g. MW101212345; 
(ii) in case of a signboard erected or altered with prior approval and consent 
from the BA, the BD reference number sh ould be displayed, e.g. BD 
2/9876/10 or BD 2-3/9876/10(6); and 
(iii) in case of any n ew works being carried out for alteration of the signboards 
mentioned in (i) or (ii) above  (excluding solely replacement of display 
surfaces), the new number sh ould be displayed.  Any existing number 
shown should be removed to avoid unnecessary confusion. 
2. The letters and digits of minor works submission number should be in black colour 
with a yellow background in case any minor works being carried out for alteration 
or replacement of display surfaces of those existing signboards without authorization 
or not being erected under the simplified requirements. 
3. All letters sh ould be in block capitals.  All letters and digits sh ould be minimum 
35mm high and in the font style of “Arial” as shown below. 
/4.   
….. 
- 1 - 
4. T
he above number sh ould be displayed on durable material securely affixed at a 
conspicuous position on the signboard, in order to be seen at the following 
suggested locations: 
(i) the nearest pavement or pedestrian way, in case of a projecting signboard, a 
signboard erected on/hung underneath the  soffit of a balcony/canopy or a 
signboard fixed on-grade; 
(ii) the nearest or the opposite pavement or pedestrian way, in case of a wall 
signboard; and 
(iii) the main roof of the building, in case the signboard has been erected on the 
roof of a building. 
(12/2010) 
- 2 - 
 Appendix E 
(PNRC 71) 
Minor Works Relating to Radio Base Station, Antenna or Transceiver  
Items of minor works relating to  radio base station ( solely for 
telecommunication services in the form of an equipment cabinet ) on roof , or 
antenna/transceiver projecting from external wall or on roof include items 1.14, 1.28, 
1.50, 2.12, 2.31, 2.49, 3.2, 3.8, 3.26, 3.27 and 3.50, which may be carried out under the 
simplified requirements.   D etailed descriptions of the items  are in Schedule 1 of the 
Building (Minor Works) Regulation.  
2. The attention of AP  and RSE is  drawn to that t he public 
telecommunication operators have to ensure  their radio base stations meet the 
requirements of all relevant government departments and obtain approval s from the 
Office of t he Telecommunications Authority (OFTA) , Town Planning Board, BD and 
Lands Department, where necessary, before they would be allowed to install radio base 
stations on rooftops and/or mount the antennas on external walls of buildings. 
3. F or erection or al teration of supporting structure s of radio base station, 
antenna or transceiver, t he AP appointed is  required to submit to the OFTA a 
declaration stating that the proposed radio base station is in compliance with the BD’s 
requirements.  The AP  and RSE shall make reference to the Guidance Note for 
Submission of Applications by Public Telecommunications Operators for the 
Installation of Radio Base Stations for Public Telecommunications Services in 
Buildings and on Rooftops issued by the OFTA for details. 
4. T he AP and RSE should remind the owner of the premises that works for 
removing supporting structures or frames of radio base station, antenna or transceiver 
and equipment cabinet of radio base station may also be minor works  under the 
simplified requirements. 
(Rev. 12/2020) 
1.
 Sample Plan (for Class III Minor Works) 
Appendix F
(PNRC 71) 
  
NOTES: 
1. The works do not 
result in any 
additional load to 
any cantilevered 
slab. 
2. No part of the frame 
projects more than 
600mm from the      
wall. 
3. The distance 
between the highest 
point of the frame 
and the ground is 
more than 3m.* 
4. The frame is 
designed for an air-
conditioning unit of 
not more than 
100kg in weight.
 
SIGNATURE OF 
THE PRESCRIBED 
REGISTERED 
CONTRACTOR 
 
 
 
 
PART PLAN OF FLAT A, 11/F  (1:50) 
  
 
 
BLOCK PLAN  (1:500) 
 
 
 
DRAWING TITLE 
 
11/F PART PLAN 
DRAWING NO. 
PLAN-001 
 ADDRESS AND LOCATION OF 
MINOR WORKS 
 
The external wall of Flat A, 11/F, 
ABC Building, XYZ Road, Mong 
Kok, Kowloon 
DESCRIPTION OF MINOR WORKS 
 
Erection of metal supporting frame for an air-conditioning unit 
on the external wall facing XYZ Road of the bedroom 
adjacent to the bath room (Class III minor works item 3.27) REVISION 
 
 
 
Note* : If the location is at the lowest ground storey, the distance between the highest point of the 
metal frame and the ground shall be described clearly on the plan.
 
Showing the 
description and 
item of minor 
works 
Notes 
Drawing No. 
Revision No. 
(if any) 
Address and 
location of the 
minor works 
Information of 
the contractor’s 
company  
(if applicable) 
A3-size paper with
min. 10mm border 
is recommended 
Bedroom
facing XYZ Road
1, 2
Erection of metal supporting 
frame (500mm wide & with 
600mm projection) for an air-
conditioning unit of 
approximate 30kg in weight on 
the window* 
Block plan with 
street name and 
location of 
premises 
highlighted (scale 
of not less than 
1:500) 
Signature of the 
PRC 
Indicate photo-
taking angle & 
photo numbers 
Extracted from 
the latest 
approved plan of 
the premises 
(scale of not less 
than 1:100) 
New minor 
works should be 
coloured so as to 
differentiate 
clearly with 
existing works or 
building 
Detailed 
description of the 
minor works 
Drawing Title 
Flat A
 
- 1
 - 
2.
 Recommended Format of Photo Page 
1/1 
 
A4-size paper is recommended
 
 (Rev. 6/2012) 
- 2 - 