Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 25 
Subm
ission of Certificate of Completion of Building Works and 
Schedule of Building Materials and Products 
Submission of Certificate of Completion of Building Works 
U
pon the completion of building works, a certificate of completion of 
building works not resulting in a new building (Form BA14/14A /14B1/14C1 and/or 
Form MW02/04) or resulting in a new building (Form BA12/13) should be submitted in 
accordance with r egulation 25 of the Building (Administration) Regulation s (B(A)R).  
While there is no statutory time limit under the Buildings Ordinance (BO) for 
processing such certificates, the Buildings Department (BD) will generally provide a 
reply to Form BA14/14A within 28 days , and Form BA14B/14C within 14 days (for 
non-audit case) or 28 days (for audit case)  under streamlined procedures,  advising the 
acceptance of the completed works or the outstanding issues to be rectified.  As a 
certificate of  completion of new buildings and application for an occupation permit 
(OP) are usually submitted together in Form BA12/ 13, they will be processed together 
within 14 days in accordance with section 21 of the BO.   
2. If the same contractor is employed for both the foundation works and the 
superstructure works for a new building or in the alteration and addition (A&A) works 
to an existing building, where spread footing foundation with excavation depth not 
exceeding 4.5m is adopted, the certification of completion of both the spread footing 
and superstructure works in such cases may be made in the Form BA12/13 or a single 
Form BA14, as the case may be, and a separate Form BA14 for completion of the 
spread footing works is not required. 
Submission of Schedule of Building Materials and Products 
3. Under the BO, the authorized person (AP), registered structural engineer  
(RSE), registered geotechnical engineer (RGE) and registered contractor (RC) have 
responsibilities to supervise building works including the selection and application of 
building materials and to certify compliance with relevant provisions of the BO upon 
completion of works.  To expedite the processing of an application for OP , the 
Building Authority (BA) requires the submission of a schedule unde r regulation 44 of 
the B(A)R , confirming the use of accepted building materials and products in 
construction. 
/4. … 
1  Registered contractor should consult the authorized person and registered structural engineer of the 
project regarding the streamlined procedures for fast track acceptance of completion of demolition 
works or A&A works prior to the submission of Form BA14B or Form BA14C respectively. 
- 2 - 
4. The schedule should be submitted with an application for OP .  AP 
should confirm and certify in the schedule that the application an d performance of 
building materials and products are in compliance with the relevant provisions of the 
BO and its subsidiary regulations and the RC should confirm the use of those building 
materials and products in construction.  Except for regularly used building materials, 
the schedule should cover all materials and products not specified on the approved plans, 
the application of which would involve the structural integrity and fire safety of the 
building, and the cast iron pipes and fittings as stipulate d in Practice Note for 
Authorized Persons , Registered Structural Engineers  and Registered Geotechnical 
Engineers (PNAP) APP-133.  W here appropriate, a schedule should be submitted on 
completion of A&A  works not resulting in a new building or minor works .  S ample 
schedules for building works and minor works are provided at Appendices A and B to 
PNAP APP-13 respectively. 
5. As an alternative to accepting test and assessment reports in the schedule , 
the BA will accept valid certificates of conformity of fire rated doorsets and 
non-loadbearing fire partition walls  issued by the accredited certification bod y in 
accordance with the Product Conformity Certification Scheme as promulgated in  
paragraph 4 of Practice Note for Registered Contractors 81. 
6. Where the building works involve the installation of fire dampers, the 
fire dampers may be installed by the registered general building contractor (RGBC) of 
the project  and a registered specialist contractor in the ventilation works category 
(RSC(V)) appointed for such purpose.  Furthermore, under the Minor Works Control 
System, erection or alteration of a fire damper in a ventilation system of an existing 
building is designated as minor works, which may be carried out under the simplified 
requirements as an alternative to obtaining approval and consent under the BO.  
Reference can be made to Schedule 1 of the Building (Minor Works) Regulation and 
Practice Note for RC 71 respectively. 
7. For fire dampers installed by RGBC /registered minor works contractor 
(RMWC), a RSC(V) should be engaged to inspect and certify that the fire dampers are 
in safe and efficient working order pursuant to Clause E8.3 of the Code of Practice for 
Fire Safety in Buildings  2011.  For fire dampers installed by RSC(V), the same 
RSC(V) could inspect and certify the fire dampers.  AP /RMWC in submitting the 
certification on fire dampers should include an  inspection certificate on fire dampers by 
RSC(V).  
( YU Po-mei, Clarice ) 
Building Authority 
Ref. : BD GP/BORD/10 (VIII) 
BD GP/BORD/93 (II) 
BD GR/1-125/106 (X) 
First issue  December 1994 
Last revision  September 2021 
This revision  February 2023 (AD/ NB1)  (Paragraph 1 am ended) 