Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 11 
Te
sting of Drainage Works 
Regulation 73 of the Building (Standards of Sanitary Fitments, 
Plumbing, Drainage Works and Latrines) Regulations  
Regulation 73(1) of the Building (Standards of Sanitary Fitments, 
Plumbing, Drainage Works and Latrines) Regulations (B(SSFPDW&L)R) requires the 
registered contractors to apply to the Building Authority (BA) for testing of drainage 
works. 
2. In accordance with Practice Note for Authorized Persons, Registered 
Structural Engineers and Registered Geotechnical Engineers ( PNAP) APP-58, the 
authorized person (AP) or his representative is required to witness the testing and endorse 
the testing results and records.  AP should prepare a certificate on the completion of 
testing of drainage works and submit all of the above documents to the BA within 7 days 
from the testing irrespective of whether the BA has inspected or tested the drainage works.  
Thus, registered contractors should arrange with AP before submitting applications to the 
BA via the standard form in the Appendix with a copy to AP.   
3. Under regulation 73(6) of the B(SSFPDW&L)R, four working days
1 
should be allowed for the BA to inspect and test the drains.  The trenches should not be 
filled in until this period has elapsed. 
4. The testing equipment should be in good working order and the drainage 
works to be tested should be properly laid to the requisite fall, suitabl y bedded and 
adequately supported.  Testing should be carried out in accordance with the method and 
procedures as set out in BS EN 1610:2015: Construction and testing of drains and sewers.  
5. For sites located in the vicinity of water control zones 2  or gathering 
grounds3, or on the advice of the Environmental Protection Department, the BA may 
require testing of manholes, petrol interceptors, septic tanks and the like to be carried out. 
( YU Po-mei, Clarice ) 
Building Authority 
Ref. :  B D GP/BREG/SF/2(II) 
First issue May 1985 
Last revision April 1993  
This revision January 2024 (AD/NB1) (Revamped)  
1 Under the Interpretation and General Clauses Ordinance, the computation of time for the 
performance of any act required under any ordinance where such period does not exceed six 
days, excludes public holidays and Sundays and periods when tropical cyclone warning 
signal No. 8 or above is in force. 
2  “water control zone” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Water Pollution Control 
Ordinance (Cap. 358). 
3  “gathering ground” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Waterworks Ordinance  
(Cap. 102). 

