Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 79 
Co
nduct of Registered Contractors1 under the Buildings Ordinance  
Statutory Building Control System 
The Buildings Ordinance ( BO) aims to provide for the planning, design, 
and construction of buildings and associated works by setting therein the building safety 
and health standards .  Pursuant to the powers under the BO, the Buildings Department 
(BD) is responsible for enforc ing these standards, and building owners are required to 
appoint and seek advice from registered contractors if they wish to carry out building 
works or street works.  
2. The registered contractors have been conferred statutory duties  under the 
BO to supervise the carrying out of the building works or street works, notify BD of any 
contravention of regulations and comply generally with the BO.  While BD has been 
carrying out curtailed and audit checks on submissions and audit checks on completed 
building works and street works, i t is the responsibility of the registered contractors to 
ensure that the works fully comply with the BO, its subsidiary legislation and any other 
relevant laws, codes of practice and practice notes.   
3. The BO and its subsidiary legislation  have made provisions for BD to 
regulate contractors through various registration systems, prosecution and disciplinary 
actions.  In particular, pursuant to section 13(2)(b) of the BO, if a registered contractor 
has been negligent or has misconducted himself in building works or street works, the 
Building Authority (BA) may bring such matters to the notice of a disciplinary board 
appointed under section 11 of the BO.  Before referring such case of negligence or 
misconduct to the disciplinary board, BA will take into consideration particulars of the 
case including th e seriousness of the negligence or misconduct for the purpose of 
determining whether the registered contractor deserves censure under section 13(1) of 
the BO. 
Examples of Negligence and Misconduct 
4. The general principles and some typical examples on negli gence and 
misconduct are provided in Appendix A for reference.  
/Reports ... 
1 For the purpose of this practice note, “registered contractors” refer to Registered General Building 
Contractors, Registered Specialist Contractors , Registered Minor Works Contractors  and Qualified 
Persons. 
- 2 - 
R
eports on Irregularities 
5. All registered contractors are encouraged to report irregularities observed 
in the course of their work to the Chief Officer/Tec hnical Services of BD.  All such 
reports will be treated in the strictest confidence. 
(CHEUNG Tin-cheung) 
Building Authority 
Ref. : BD GP/BORD/133 
First issue May 2018 (AD/CS)  
Appendix A 
(PNRC 79) 
Examples of Negligence and Misconduct 
1. Compliance with the Buildings Ordinance (BO) and its subsidiary legislation  
All registered contractors should take due dilig ence to ensure compliance with the 
building laws.  Typical examples of non-compliances are: 
(a)  D iverges or deviates in any material way from any work shown in 
the plan approved by the Building Authority (BA) or a plan 
relating to minor works; 
(b)  K nowingly mi srepresents a material fact  in any document  given 
to BA; and 
(c)  Undertakes construction work but is not qualified to discharge. 
2. Integrity 
Integrity is a fundamental quality that is expected from registered contractors.  
Typical examples of dishonest behaviour include: 
(a) Abets building owners  and other persons  to carry out 
unauthorised building works (UBW s) or disregard the 
requirements under the Minor Works Control System; 
(b) Falsifies information, documents or records relating to building 
works; 
(c) Advertises skills and knowledge in carrying out UBWs; and 
(d) Has financial or personal interest in connection with any business 
related to the  building works undertaken with a particular client 
without declaring such interests to the client. 
3. Co-operation with the Buildings Department (BD) 
Proper administration of the BO relies on the full co- operation of the stakeholders 
and BD expects all registered contractors to assist its work to ensure compliance 
with building safety, health and environment standards.  Typi cal examples of 
malpractice include: 
/(a) ... 
- 1 - 
(a)  R
epeatedly fails to provide factual information, inspection reports 
or site  records that are required by  BD without a reasonable 
explanation; 
(b)  Obstructs BD's investigation with a malicious intent to  cover up; 
and 
(c)  Repeatedly fails to respond to BD’s written warning concerning 
aspects of deficiencies or non- compliances without a reasonable 
explanation. 
4. Compliance with other laws and regulations 
Registered contractors should comply with all relevant laws and regulations when 
carrying building works or street works.  Typical examples of non- compliances 
include: 
(a)  Fails to observe site safety under the Factories and Industrial 
Undertakings Ordinance (Chapter 59); and 
(b)  U ses BD’s logo in the name card, letterhead or publicity materials 
which violates the intellectual property rights of BD. 
(May 2018) 
- 2 - 