Buildings Department Practice Note for Registered Contractors 60
Water Seepage 
Introduction 
 
  
Water seepage has been a cause for concern to a number of Government 
departments including the Buildings Department (BD).  It causes not only nuisance but 
also deterioration to the structural member of a building if unattended for a prolonged 
period. 
 
2.  Regulation 3 of the Building (Construction) Regulations (B(C)Rs) 
stipulates that all materials used in any building works shall be of a suitable nature and 
quality for the purposes for wh ich they are used; adequate ly mixed or prepared; and 
applied, used or fixed so as to perform adequately the functions for which they are 
designed.  Regulations 34, 38, 41 and 48 of the B(C)Rs also require external walls, roofs, 
kitchen and bathroom walls and floors to be protected against penetration of moisture or 
water.  Authorized Persons (AP), Register ed Structural Engineers (RSE), Registered 
General Building Contractors (RGBC) a nd Registered Minor Works Contractors 
(RMWC) are reminded to ensure that the de sign and construction of their buildings or 
building works, as the case may be, meet the above performance requirements and are 
structurally safe. 
 
Prevention of Water Seepage in New Buildings 
 
3.  The attention of AP, RSE, RGBC a nd RMWC  is drawn to the importance 
of preventing water seepage at source.  To ensure the building quality and compliance 
with the performance requi rements stipulated in the Buildings Ordinance and 
Regulations, AP, RSE, RGBC and RMWC should pay special attention to the choice of 
material, design and specification, workmanship and supervision. 
 
4.  According to the past records, roof, external wall, window, bathroom, 
kitchen, plumbing and drainage pipes, car park floor and basement are areas which are 
susceptible to water seepage if not carefu lly designed and well a ttended to during the 
course of construction.  RGBC and RMWC are therefore advised to take steps to prevent 
water seepage in these areas and to pr operly apply the specified appropriate 
waterproofing measures to these areas and to provide close supervision to the work. 
 
5.  You may wish to note that BD ha s issued Guidelines  on Prevention of 
Water Seepage in New Buildings for general reference. 
/General ….. 
 - 2 -
General 
 
6. 
 A practice note on the sa me subject has been issued to Authorized Persons 
and Registered Structural Engineers. 
( AU Choi-kai ) 
Building Authority 
Ref. : 
BD GR/1-55/173 
 
First issue March 2005 
This revision December 2010 (AD/NB1) – paras. 2, 3 & 4 amended 