Buildings Department Practice Notes for Registered Contractors 41 
 
Fixing of Reinforcement for Concrete Works 
 
  Displaced reinforcement has been a major contributing factor for the 
undue corrosion of steel and spalling of concrete, which in some cases has led to the 
collapse of structural elements causing casualties.  This Practice Note gives guidance 
on good practice in fixing reinforcement to achieve safe and durable reinforced 
concrete structures. 
 
Fixing of Reinforcement 
 
2.
  Bar reinforcement and fabric reinforcement from each batch should not 
be fixed until testing of the batch has been completed (Practice Note for Registered
 
Contractors 33 refers). 
 
3.  Loose rust, excessive flaky rust or mill-scale on reinforcement must be 
removed by wire
-brushing.  Badly corroded, damaged or scaling steel should NOT be 
used. 
 
4.  Sufficient number of spacers, chairs and such other supports as may be 
necessary should be provided to maintain the reinforcement in the correct location as 
shown in the approved plans and to maintain the specified minimum cover at all 
positions.  Spacers and chairs should be placed at a maximum spacing of 1.5 m.
  
However, in the case of 20 mm diameter or smaller bars the spacing of chairs and 
spacers should be suitably reduced to avoid sagging. 
 
5.
  Spacers for reinforcement should be constructed of concrete or of a 
proprietary plastic or concrete type.  They should be as small as practicable and 
should be capable of supporting the weight of reinforcement and construction loads
 
without breaking, deforming or overturning.  The strength and durability of spacers 
should be not less than that of the surrounding concrete. 
 
6.
  Sufficient number of intersecting and lapping bars should be tied by 
tying wire, tying devices or clips to prevent movement of the reinforcement.  The 
ends of tying wire, tying devices and clips should not encroach into the cover to 
reinforcement. 
 
7.
  Reinforcement should not be contaminated or displaced as a result of 
access (e.g. persons walking or transporting concrete l aden wheelbarrows) over the 
reinforcement.  Access should be obtained by using planks and ladders or other
 
methods agreed by the authorized person/registered structural engineer, which are 
independently supported and well clear of the completed reinforceme
nt.  Care should 
be taken to avoid the displacement of reinforcement or spacers during subsequent
 
trades (e.g. laying conduits for electric cables in floor slabs).  In the case of 
cantilevered projecting structures, it is crucial to ensure that the complet ed top 
reinforcement would not deflect/displace due to access or other construction loads.
   
 
/This …
.. 
 - 2 -
This can be achieved by providing extra chairs and ties to the reinforcement in such 
elements.  Attention should also be given to concealed conduits for
 building services 
as careless work could cause displacement of reinforcement. 
 
8.  Laps and joints in reinforcement should be located only at the specified 
positions.  Reinforcement connectors should be fixed in accordance with the 
manufacturer’s recommen dations and using equipment recommended by the  
manufacturer. 
 
9.  Reinforcement which is free-standing should be secured in position and 
braced to prevent movement due to wind and other loads.  Prefabricated reinforcement 
cages should be adequately supported and braced before lifting. 
 
Supervision and Inspection 
 
10.  The registered contractor should provide continuous supervision, to
 
ensure that the fixing of reinforcement is carried out in accordance with the approved 
plans, the recommendations given in t his Practice Note are followed and no  
displacement of reinforcement takes place during placement and compaction of  
concrete.  The authorized person/registered structural engineer should provide 
adequate quality supervision in this respect. 
 
11.  The registered contractor should inform the authorized  
person/registered structural engineer to inspect all reinforcement after fixing and well 
in advance of concreting to allow for any necessary rectification.  In the case of walls, 
columns etc., the inspection sho
uld be arranged before the complete erection of 
formwork to avoid difficult access to the reinforcement.  The Contractor should also 
take adequate measures to ensure that the reinforcement remains in the approved  
conditions until concreting has been completed. 
 
12.  A similar practice note has been issued to authorized persons and 
registered structural engineers. 
 (
 Marco M H WU ) 
 Building Authority 
 
Ref.:  BD GP/BREG/C/3(III) 
 
First issue  March 1998 (AD/SE) 
This revision  July 2003 (AD/NB2) 
– para. 5 added and para. 7 amended 
 
Index under : Fixing of Reinforcement for Concrete Works 
  Reinforcement Fixing 