\n===== PDF PAGE 68 =====\n  
April 2026 version 
 
- 59 - 
 
7. Water Conservation 
7.1 General  
#7.1.1 To uplift the standard of water efficiency of plumbing fixtures and appliances, a 
mandatory Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme (WELS) has been implemented .  
For all proposed plumbing works submitted using the Form WWO 46 for 
designated part of premises as listed below, the proposed products to be used for 
shower head s for bathing, water tap s, urinal flushing valve s and water-closet 
fitments11 should comply with prescribed water efficiency grades registered under 
WELS.   
 
 
7.2 Minimum Flow Requirements for Fittings and water-closet fitments in Inside Service  
#7.2.1 The minimum flow requirements for draw -off taps, single and combination taps 
shall conform to the specification in the relevant international standards.  Relevant 
standards for respective tapware has been summarized in Part B of this TR. 
 
 
7.3 Water Efficiency Requirements for Fittings and water-closet fitments in Inside Service 
#7.3.1 Subject to exemption stipulated in Section 7.5.1, designated products (showers for 
bathing, water taps and urinal flushing valves) of prescribed water efficiency 
requirements registered under WELS shall be used in the following designated part 
of premises:- 
i. Kitchens of the domestic premises; and  
ii. Bathrooms and toilets of all premises. 
 
#7.3.2 the products shall comply with the prescribed water efficiency requirements in 
Table 7.3.2.1 below:- 
 
Table 7.3.2.1 Prescribed water efficiency requirements for designated products 
Designated products Prescribed water efficiency requirements 
Showers for bathing1 Grade 1 or Grade 2 
Water taps (for use in kitchen sinks)2 Grade 1 or Grade 2 or Grade 3 
Water taps (for use in washing basins of 
bathrooms and toilets)2 
Grade 1 or Grade 2 
Urinal flushing valves Grade 1 or Grade 2 
                                                 
11 In accordance with Section 4.6 of the Scheme Document for WELS on water closets, the term “water closet” 
covers toilet suite (one-piece water closet pan); water closet pan only; water closet cistern only; and a 
combination of a water closet pan and cistern (close-coupled suite). \n\n===== PDF PAGE 69 =====\n  
April 2026 version 
 
- 60 - 
 
1 ’Showers for bathing’ cover showerheads installed to fixed arms/concealed pipes in the wall or ceiling, 
showerheads installed to pivotal arms and hand-held showers. 
2 ’Water taps’ cover mixing or non-mixing type water taps installed at bathroom/toilet washing basins 
and pantry/kitchen sinks.  Water taps equipped with automatic sensing open/close device or automatic 
closing mechanism are also included.  However, water taps installed at bath tub/shower, any system, 
machinery and devices such as irrigation sys tem, washing machines, water dispensers etc .  which 
serve for bathing/operational use, are excluded. Water taps for construction purposes are exempted. 
 
7.3.3 Not Used.  
 
#7.3.4 Subject to exemption stipulated in Section 7.5.2, all water-closet fitments proposed 
in Form WWO 1149 (the “List of Pipes and Fittings”) for proposed plumbing 
works should comply with the prescribed water efficiency requirements as detailed 
in the Table 7.3.4.1 below. 
 
Table 7.3. 4.1 Prescribed Water Efficiency Requirem ent of Water -closet Fitment for 
Designated Parts of Premises 
Designated parts of premises Prescribed water efficiency 
(a) Toilet(s) of domestic premises Grade 1 or Grade 2 
(b) Toilet(s) of non-domestic premises, 
without automatic sensing flushing 
apparatus(es) 
Grade 1 or Grade 2 
(c) Toilet(s) of non-domestic premises, with 
automatic sensing flushing apparatus(es) 
Grade 1, Grade 2 or Grade 3 
(d) Disabled toilet(s) of any premises Grade 1, Grade 2 or Grade 3 
 
 
7.4 Alternatives to Application of WELS Products 
#7.4.1 For water taps or showers for bathing not complying with the above water 
efficiency requirements in Table 7.3. 2.1, the WA will accept the alternative of 
installing a flow controller inside the water tap or shower for bathing .  The flow 
controller shall be a registered product under WELS and shall be of appropriate 
water efficiency grade to form a ‘combined’  water saving device that meets the 
prescribed water efficiency requirements.   
 
#7.4.2 When submitting the Form WWO 46, test report (s) of flow rate test on the 
‘combined’ water-saving appliance(s) shall be enclosed to demonstrate compliance 
with the prescriptions in Table 7.3.2.1.  The test shall be conducted within 5 years 
before the date of submission. 
 \n\n===== PDF PAGE 70 =====\n  
April 2026 version 
 
- 61 - 
 
7.5 Exemption from the Water Efficiency Requirements  
#7.5.1 Applicants may apply for exemption from the requirements within the scope of 
designated part of premises  under the scenarios described in Clauses 7.5.1a to 
7.5.1c. 
 
#7.5.1a Scenario A 
All premises with tenders/quotations concerning the installation of showers for 
bathing, water taps or urinal flushing valves therein invited before 1 February 2017 
may be eligible for exemption from the mandatory use of designated products 
registered under WELS.  To apply for exemption, in t he submission of the Form 
WWO 46, the applicant shall: (a) submit documentary proof of such 
tender/quotation or the existence of such tender/quotation; and (b) demonstrate that 
the specifications stipulated under the said tender/quotation for the use of th ose 
designated products could not fulfil the prescribed water efficiency requirements 
to the WA for verification and approval. 
 
#7.5.1b Scenario B 
For all premises, applications for exemption based on technical issues like 
inadequate water pressure for the operation of water heater after the installation of 
designated products will also be considered on a case-by-case basis.  To apply for 
exemption, the applicant shall provide information to fully justify why the 
mandatory use of designated WELS products ca nnot be complied with in the 
submission of the Form WWO 46.   
 
#7.5.1c Scenario C 
For all premises, applications for relaxation of requirements based on reasons other 
than those under scenarios (A) or (B) will also be considered on a case -by-case 
basis.  The relaxation may be in the form of relaxing the flow rate requirements of 
certain designated products or exempting certain designated part of premises from 
the mandatory requirements .  To apply for the relaxation, the applicant shall 
provide detailed info rmation in the submission of the Form WWO 46 to fully 
justify why the mandatory use of designated WELS products cannot be fully 
complied with. 
 
#7.5.2          For Form WWO 1149 submitted after 1 December 2020, an applicant may apply 
for exemption from the  requirements within the scope of designated part of 
premises under the scenarios described in Clauses 7.5.2a to 7.5.2c. 
 \n\n===== PDF PAGE 71 =====\n  
April 2026 version 
 
- 62 - 
 
#7.5.2a Scenario (A) 
 All premises with tenders/quotations concerning the installation of water -closet 
fitments therein invited before  1 December 2019 may be eligible for exemption 
from the mandatory use of water -closet fitments complying with the prescribed 
water efficiency grades registered under WELS. 
 
To apply for exemption, in the submission of Form WWO 1149, the applicant shall: 
(a)  submit documentary proof of such tender/quotation or the existence of 
such tender/quotation; and 
(b)  demonstrate that the specifications stipulated under the said 
tender/quotation for the use of those water closets could not fulfill the prescribed 
water efficiency requirements to the WA for verification and approval. 
 
#7.5.2b Scenario (B) 
 For all premises, applications for exemption based on technical issues will also be 
considered on a case -by-case basis. To apply for exemption, the applicant shall 
provide information to fully justify why the mandatory use of water-closet fitments 
complying with the prescribed water efficiency grades registered under WELS 
cannot be complied with in the submission of Form WWO 1149. 
 
#7.5.2c Scenario (C) 
 For all premises, applications for relaxation of requirements based on reasons other 
than those under scenarios (A) and (B) will also be considered on a case -by-case 
basis. The relaxation may be in the form of relaxing the flush volume requirements 
of water-closet fitments or exempting certain designated part of premises from the 
mandatory requirements. To apply for the relaxation, the applicant shall provide 
detailed information in the submission of Form WWO 1149 to fully justify why 
the mandatory use of water -closet fitments complying with the prescribed water 
efficiency grades registered under WELS cannot be fully complied with. 
 
 
7.6 Not Used.  
 
 
  \n\n===== PDF PAGE 72 =====\n  
April 2026 version 
 
- 63 - 
 
Part B: Plumbing Material Standards and Requirements  
B1. Introduction  
B1.1 This document standardizes the applicable standards and test requirements for 
plumbing material components including:- 
- Pipes and fittings; 
- Valves; 
- Taps and mixers; 
- Products covered by Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme (WELS); and  
- Other materials 
 
B2. Pipes and Fittings to be Used in Inside Service or Fire Service  
B2.1. Products subject to Approval by the WA 
B2.1.1 Pipes or fitting s for use in Inside Service or Fire Service shall comply with a 
prescribed specification in accordance with the Waterworks Regulations.   
 
In general, suitable pipe materials for inside service and fire service are as follows:- 
(a) Pipes for a fresh water inside service must be made of ductile iron, 
unplasticized polyvinyl chloride (PVC -U), steel, stainless steel, copper, 
polyethylene (PE), crosslinked polyethylene (PE -X) or chlorinated polyvinyl 
chloride (PVC -C).  However, pipes made of polyethylene or unplasticized 
polyvinyl chloride must not be used for hot fresh water inside service . Pipes 
and fittings made of polybutylene (PB)  are not permitted to be used in fresh 
water inside service ;  
(b) Pipes for a salt water inside service must be made of ductile iron, polyethylene 
or unplasticized polyvinyl chloride; 
(c) Pipes for a fresh water fire service must be made of ductile iron, steel, stainless 
steel or copper; and 
(d) Pipes for a salt water fire service must be made of steel and internally lined 
with chlorinated polyvinyl chloride or of ductile iron. 
 
B2.1.2 WSD has a General Acceptance (GA) system in place to pre -approve plumbing 
products used in plumbing projects. To obtain approval for the installation and use 
of pipes or fittings in inside service or fire service covered by the Waterworks 
Ordinance/Waterworks Regulations from this Authority, the GA applicant is 
required to produce one set of certification or test reports confirming their 
compliance with the relevant prescribed specification as listed on WSD webpage 
from either (a) the British Standards Inst itution, (b) the U.K. Water Regulations 
Advisory Scheme or (c) accredited laboratories acceptable to this Authority. For (a) \n\n===== PDF PAGE 73 =====\n  
April 2026 version 
 
- 64 - 
 
and (b), please ensure that the pipes and fittings are tested against the relevant 
British Standard as listed on WSD webpage. For (c), please note that this Authority 
will accept laboratories accredited by the Hong Kong Laboratory Accreditation 
Scheme (HOKLAS) under the following sub-categories:- 
 
 Category  Sub-category  
Construction 
Materials  
(i)  
(ii) 
(iii)  
(iv)  
Metallic materials  
Pipes 
Showers 
Tapwares and valves  
 
If the submission is accepted, the WSD will include the product in its pre-approved 
list. Builders can use the product in plumbing projects before the GA expiry date 
of that product (the validity is a maximum period of five years).   
 
 The above requirements are tabulated below: 
 
Table B2.1.1.1 Applicable materials for fresh water and salt water inside service at different 
locations 
Pipe/ Pipe fitting material 
Fresh Water Inside Service Salt Water 
Inside 
Service(1) Cold Water Hot Water 
Copper ✔ ✔ ✖ 
Ductile iron (with internal coating) ✔ ✔ ✔  
Polyethylene (PE) ✔  ✔(2) 
Polyethylene-cross-linked (PE-X) ✔ ✔ ✖ 
Plastic lined steel (PVC-C lining) ✔ ✖ ✖ 
Plastic lined steel (PVC-U/  
PE lining) ✔ ✖ ✖ 
Polyvinyl chloride - chlorinated  
(PVC-C) ✔ ✔ ✖ 
Polyvinyl chloride - unplasticized (PVC-U) ✔  ✔ 
Stainless steel ✔ ✔ ✖ 
✔ : Suitable for use when the relevant standards are complied with in general 
✖ : Not suitable for use in general 
(1) : Suitable location(s) for installation may refer to fresh water inside service 
(2) : When installed in exposed condition, black pipe and pipe fittings shall be used. 
 
 